---
layout: post
title: The US Visa
categories:
- India
excerpt: There is a page on wikipedia that lists visa requirements for Indian citizens. As is clearly evident, there are only a few countries where an Indian can happily go to without a visa. As you would expect, the USA is not one of them.
---

There is a page on wikipedia that lists [visa requirements for Indian citizens](
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Visa_requirements_for_Indian_citizens){:target="_blank"}.
As is clearly evident, there are only a few countries where an Indian can
happily go to without a visa. As you would expect, the USA is not one of them.

I had been told that having a visa to the United States may be an advantage for
a trip to Latin America for the following reasons:

1. Direct flights to South America tend to be more expensive than getting there
   after a stopover in the US
2. Many Latin American countries are more likely to grant you a visa if you
   already have a US visa
3. For some countries, you don't even need to get a separate visa if you already
   have a valid American visa

I already had a US L1 visa valid for two more years, but it would cease to be
valid as soon as I quit my current job. So I had to arrange for a visitors visa
(B1/B2). Moreover, I needed to get it soon when I still had a job. My chances of
getting it later as a jobless backpacker with not a lot of savings to my name
would have been rather low I presumed.

I got a visa interview appointment at the US consulate in Chennai in the 2nd
week of December (closer to my last day at work than I would've liked). I had to
really hustle to gather all the necessary documents in time. I reached Chennai
on the evening of 6th December, and rented a bed in the dormitory in the main
bus station itself.

The next morning I was at the consulate on time, and after going through the
customary security checks, waited for my turn for the visa interview. When I
eventually got to the window, I greeted the consulate officer and handed over my
passport along with the mandatory forms. The consulate officer asked me for how
long I had been working for Motorola, and I said since December 2004. She seemed
satisfied, after which she only asked me some simple yes or no questions before
telling me that my visa was approved. I couldn't believe how simple it had been.
She hadn't asked me to show her even one of the supporting documents that I had
spent so much time and effort arranging for :)

But I wasn't complaining. I was on my way to getting a US visa now, and that was
a big hurdle out of the way. The passport arrived by courier in a few days and
they had given me a 10 year multiple entry visa - even better than I'd hoped.
