---
layout: post
title: Khmer wedding
categories:
- Cambodia
excerpt: Today was the big day for which I had actually come to Phnom Penh. Mariam, a teacher in Phnom Penh and one of the local couchsurfers, had invited anyone who was interested to witness a Cambodian wedding to one of her students' marriage.
---

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-24-sign-in-bookshop.jpg"
    title="sign-in-bookshop"
    caption="Sign inside a bookshop close to my guesthouse" %}

Today was the big day for which I had actually come to Phnom Penh. Mariam, a
teacher in Phnom Penh and one of the local couchsurfers, had invited anyone who
was interested to witness a Cambodian wedding to one of her students' marriage.
I still hadnâ€™t heard from Talita, and I knew she really wanted to come for this;
so I sent her a reminder email.

Today was the third day of this three-day-long wedding, and I made it to the
agreed-upon meeting place at the agreed-upon time. To my surprise, Echo, who had
vanished in Siem Reap after [fighting with the old tuk-tuk driver]({{
site.baseurl }}{% post_url
2010-02-18-the-other-temples-around-angkor-wat %}), was also there. No-one else
turned up; so Mariam drove the two of us to the wedding hall. We were among the
early guests to arrive, for arrangements for the actual ceremonies were still
underway.

Nobody spoke any English, but everyone was very warm and welcoming. This is a
*huge* learning I have had since embarking upon my travels. People who have to
constantly deal with tourists are *almost never* genuinely nice, but once you're
off the regular tourist circuit you experience far more geniality. We were
guided to one of the many round tables placed in the hall. There were about 9
chairs arranged around each table. Each table had water, beer and other soft
drinks along with the silverware. We were free to drink anything we wanted, and
as soon as any bottle got empty, it was promptly replaced. Just so that we don't
feel alienated, people asked around for an English speaking person and brought
him to our table to speak to us for a while.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-24-round-tables.jpg"
    title="round-tables"
    caption="The round tables being set up" %}

It appeared that the Khmers didn't really do a "cheers" before drinking, and
they looked surprised when Echo and I did. In fact they seemed to like it so
much that after that, they did it every 5 minutes for the next hour or so till
we were done with dinner. Mariam could not stay for the entire ceremony as she
had a class to conduct. But before leaving, she informed us that food would not
be served at a table until all the seats around it were taken. For this reason,
incoming guests are always guided to empty seats at partially occupied tables.
As soon as the last seat at our table was occupied, food began to appear
magically. Each table was like a mini-community and everyone dug into the
food-laden plates in the middle with their chopsticks.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-24-our-table.jpg"
    title="our-table"
    caption="Our table" %}

Of all the tables, I could sense that ours was special. It had two foreigners
after all, and the locals at our table seemed to be proud of this fact. Indians
are generally not champion chopstick users, and I am no exception. Echo,
however, is Chinese and she could handle the chopsticks as deftly as the
Cambodians. So in that respect, I probably stuck out as a sore thumb in the
entire marriage hall. I was petrified every time my plate was empty and I had to
fetch something from one of the shared food bowls in the middle. I must have
looked like a kid balancing his food on the two thin sticks and breathing a sigh
of relief each time it successfully made it to the plate. On one of the
occasions that it didn't, a piece of chicken landed in my beer glass. It was
embarrassing to fish it out of the glass, but that piece of chicken did taste
interesting. Others at my table found my clumsiness amusing, but were sporty
enough to encourage me whenever I successfully managed to get something in my
mouth. I am also super grateful to the lady sitting next to me who often helped
me to put stuff on my plate and made sure my glass was never empty.

Another notable feature about the food was the almost complete lack of
vegetarian dishes on offer. From the looks of it, vegetarians would have had to
be content with just plain rice and salad. Even among the non-vegetarian
options, there were some really strange looking dishes that I guess could look
scary to many people. Fortunately for me, I belong to the category of those who
can stuff their faces with just about anything under the Sun.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-24-fish.jpg"
    title="fish"
    caption="Fish" %}

Mariam had said that she would return to pick us up around 8.30 pm, but Echo
couldn't wait that long and left. So I sat at a corner of the hall, opened my
netbook and started updating this blog.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-24-main-entrance.jpg"
    title="main-entrance"
    caption="The main entrance" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-24-bride-and-groom.jpg"
    title="bride-and-groom"
    caption="The bride &amp; groom with some other guests" %}

After about an hour or so, there was a sudden flurry of activity, and the bride
and groom appeared at the entrance. From there they walked to the main stage
while the guests showered flowers on them. Soon people started gathering near
the stage and dancing. Interestingly, irrespective of the tempo of the music
being played, the dance was always slow and easy; almost as if everyone was
deliberately moving in slow motion.

I wanted to join in the dancing, but was too shy to go by myself. Once Mariam
got there, we joined the people dancing. Dancing so slowly seemed strange in the
beginning, but it was so easy and relaxing, that I thoroughly enjoyed myself
later on. People seeing me dance had huge grins on their faces, and many came up
to me to shake hands or pat my back.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-24-slow-dancing.jpg"
    title="slow-dancing"
    caption="Slow dancing Khmer style" %}

It is customary in Cambodian weddings for attending guests to drop some money
into a box marked for donations. This money is given to the bride's father to
help cover some of the wedding expenses. One cannot assign a value to the
amazing kindness and hospitality that had been extended to me over the course of
the evening. But I still wanted to do my bit, so before leaving, I made sure to
put a generous amount of money in an envelope and drop it into the box.

Mariam dropped me off close to my guesthouse, and I thanked her for having given
me the opportunity to have such a great new cultural experience; possibly a
once-in-a-lifetime event for a poor Indian traveller.
