---
layout: post
title: The first day of work
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: Each work day begins early for all volunteers at Katitawa. Robert comes to the hostel every morning at 6 am loudly singing John Denver's famous Annie's Song, and the idea is that when you hear it, you get out of bed.
---

Each work day begins early for all volunteers at Katitawa. Robert comes to the
hostel every morning at 6 am loudly singing John Denver's famous Annie's Song,
and the idea is that when you hear it, you get out of bed. After walking by all
rooms singing, Robert goes to the kitchen to make a simple porridge breakfast
for everyone.

{% include video.html
    code="xs_CNnCqYvU"
    caption="Annie's Song - our wake-up call" %}

All of us were ready by 6.30 am and gathered in the kitchen for the porridge.
Those who want something else for breakfast have to arrange for it themselves.
Everyone was making faces at the porridge but I quite liked it, although that
may have been because this was the first time I was having it. After eating
rather hastily, we left the hostel at 7 am.

Once we hit the main road, the group of volunteers splits into two. The smaller
group of 3 to 4 volunteers heads to the library, while the others head to the
school. The library volunteers later come to the school at lunch time. Being
used to having a school library attached to a school, I found it a little
strange that here the library and the school were quite far from each other.
Anyway, it was such a lovely clear morning that we could see all the mountains
in the area, and Morgane pointed out all six volcanoes around us. I was told
that it is very rare to be able to see all of them on the same day. Most
mornings are misty, which makes it quite difficult to see beyond a few hundred
metres, and even on clear days, at least some of the mountains would be covered
by clouds.

It was a long trek to the school, through several fields, partially up the side
of a hill, then on a flat path along its edge, and finally a short but steep
ascent. Once we got there, Dotahn and Morgane gave me a brief tour of the school
itself. There was a main building which had most of the classrooms and a smaller
separate building which housed the nursery for really small kids. Two other
structures were a kitchen-cum-eating-hall and a toolshed. Besides these, there
was a small vegetable garden, a larger but still unused plot of land (which was
to be made into a farm) and a small flattened football-cum-dancing playground.
Next to the school was a forested area, which the school had rented for the next
five years.

Robert told me that currently there were three types of activities that
volunteers could help with - teaching at the school, working at the library or
constructing stuff. I couldn't speak any Spanish or Kichwa so teaching was out
of the question. Working at the library meant sitting at a computer or engaging
in creative/craft work which I wasn't too keen on. So I opted to help out in the
construction related jobs.

Dotahn, who was professionally involved in some construction related work back
in Australia, was working on several small-to-medium sized construction projects
at the school. Some of the in-progress and planned projects were making stairs
to the nursery, making concrete poles to fence the planned farm, making a pond
for the farm, making a smaller fenced section within the farm to house chicken
and ducks, making a zip line through the adjoining forest and making a tree
house with a rope bridge. I had never done any construction related activity
before, so everything sounded new and exciting to me, and I was really looking
forward to learn new things.

The first thing we did was make some concrete poles. For this, we had to first
make moulds out of planks of wood. Then we had to mix sand, gravel, cement and
water; and pour this mixture into the moulds with iron rods placed inside for
reinforcement. It was tiring work, and by lunch time we had only managed to make
three poles. Dotahn told me that it would take about 15 to 20 days for the
concrete to fully harden. So it is quite likely that it will be a future group
of volunteers that actually makes use of all these poles that we will make,
without giving a moment of thought to how much effort went into making them :(

At lunch time, the volunteers from the library joined us. We all sat outside the
kitchen to have a simple but satisfying lunch of beans and rice. After that we
took measurements of the pine forest, and then decided to call it a day.

Dinner in the evening was followed by a house meeting, where the volunteers raised to Robert any concerns they had, and also summarised all the work in progress.

That brings us to the present. Me sitting with my netbook on my bed in the
corner of one of the larger rooms of the hostel. This room is on the lower
floor, and is shared by four volunteers in all. Our room also has a
toilet-cum-bathroom with supposedly the most reliable shower in the hostel. So
other volunteers prefer to come to our room to shower, but the door doesn't have
a bolt on the inside so there's a small element of risk involved. When I tried
it, the shower seemed to randomly oscillate between providing scaldingly hot and
freezingly cold water. If this is what is termed reliable, I think I'd rather
not find out how the other showers behave.

Anyway, tomorrow is a public holiday. So the school will be closed, but the
volunteers would still have to work. The plan is to get a lot of things done
tomorrow because there won't be any kids to deal with.
