---
layout: post
title: Varanasi
categories:
- India
excerpt: This was not the first time that I was in Varanasi. But my first trip doesn't really count as I had been a small kid back then. The first thing that struck me now was how filthy the city was. Everywhere you looked, there were piles of garbage. Cattle and dogs were feasting on these piles and doing a fine job of scattering them everywhere. Children were taking a dump by the side of the roads. People were littering, spitting or peeing in almost every direction one looked, and with seemingly zero compunction.
---

This was not the first time that I was in Varanasi. But my first trip doesn't
really count as I had been a small kid back then. The first thing that struck me
now was how filthy the city was. Everywhere you looked, there were piles of
garbage. Cattle and dogs were feasting on these piles and doing a fine job of
scattering them everywhere. Children were taking a dump by the side of the roads.
People were littering, spitting or peeing in almost every direction one looked,
and with seemingly zero compunction.

As it so happens, Varanasi is one of the holiest places for Hindus. It is also a
popular destination for foreign tourists seeking what they consider a "true
Indian experience". Understandably it is crowded. Understandably a lot of
garbage gets generated. But what I find absolutely incomprehensible is how less
effort seems to be spent in trying to make it cleaner. Perhaps it _is_ all the
filth that gives foreign tourists the "true Indian experience". If that is
really the case, then it is such a sorry state of affairs :(

Unlike my usual self, I wanted to be indoors as much as possible. This was
probably to

- Stay away from the filth,
- Stay protected from the biting cold, and
- Stay with the nice people at home.

However, walking along the Ganges on the various
[ghats](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghats_in_Varanasi) was definitely a good
experience. Nicole (Jana's Swiss colleague), Jana & I went to the famous [Kashi
Vishwanath temple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kashi_Vishwanath_Temple), but
only I was allowed to enter the temple as I was born into a Hindu family. This
pissed me off no end. I would never have bothered to go anywhere where people
are discriminated against, and especially in such a brazen manner. But I had
promised Prit's mom that I would make a small
[Puja](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Puja_(Hinduism)) worth 51 Rupees at the
Kashi Vishwanath temple, and for that reason I did go inside. It couldn't hold a
candle to [my experience at Tirupati]({% post_url 2010-01-21-venky-call-answered
%}).

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-01-flying-kite-with-kids.jpg"
    title="Kite Flyer"
    caption="Flying kites with some kids at the ghats" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-01-nicole-and-ear-muffs.jpg"
    title="Nicole & ear-muffs"
    caption="With Nicole and my new best friends - Ear-muffs!" %}

I went to the [Banaras Hindu University
(BHU)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banaras_Hindu_University) - where Jana
works - on one of the days, and met some of Jana's students. BHU has a sprawling
campus, and it could surely be better maintained. But compared to the rest of
the city however, it was paradise.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-01-jana-students.jpg"
    title="Jana with her students"
    caption="Jana with her students at BHU" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-01-ganga-aarti.jpg"
    title="Ganga Aarti"
    caption="We hired a small boat so we could watch the Ganga Aarti from the river" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-01-shiva-painting.jpg"
    title="Shiva painting"
    caption="Some guy called Kevinos Padre was painting a Shiva at one of the
        ghats" %}

On one of the days, we made a short day-trip to the nearby city of
[Sarnath](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarnath) where Gautama Buddha is said to
have first taught his teachings after attaining enlightenment.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-01-sarnath-stupa.jpg"
    title="Sarnath stupa"
    caption="At the stupa in Sarnath" %}

Four days in Varanasi went by in a flash, and it was already time to leave. I
asked Jana if she would like to come to Delhi with me and she was more than
happy to have the chance to travel a bit.
