---
layout: post
title: Koh Samui
categories:
- Thailand
excerpt: After 2 days of being in Bangkok without seeing much of Thailand besides its nightlife and blowing up more money than planned, we were beginning to get jittery.
---

After 2 days of being in Bangkok without seeing much of Thailand besides the
nightlife and blowing up more money than planned, we were beginning to get
jittery. So on the third day, we woke up purposefully in the morning, at an
uncharacteristically early hour for us, skipped breakfast, promptly checked out
of the hotel and reached the train station. We were bent on not spending a
single minute longer in Bangkok and getting on a train to Surat Thani in the
south as soon as possible. To our great disappointment, we were told that the
next train to Surat Thani would leave only in the evening. This meant that we
were now forced to spend the rest of the day in Bangkok itself.

Setbacks like this have by now become so common to the Breakdown Gang, that they
don't bother us for too long. So we found ways to keep ourselves busy till the
evening, and finally boarded the train when it was time. According to me, trains
in Thailand are really not in the same league as those in India. The Thai trains
run on meter gauge tracks, which means they're really narrow. Our train,
although being long-distance was quite short, with perhaps only five or six
coaches. Even the cruising speed was really slow, and when it accelerated, it
sounded more like a bus.

The seats inside were wide, but not particularly comfortable. On long overnight
train journeys, it is normal for the seats to be converted into sleeping berths,
and as you'd expect, doing that was possible. But while the procedure to do so
is totally intuitive on Indian trains, it seemed like one needs to get a college
degree to do something so simple on our train. So we joined all our
co-passengers in struggling with the seats for a good while, before the coach
attendant showed up and fixed everyone's seats.

Despite all its shortcomings, we did get a good night's sleep and were refreshed
when we awoke. About 15 minutes before our destination, the coach attendant walked
along the aisle announcing Surat Thani as the next station. But he made the
announcement in such a sing-song voice that it took a supreme effort on our part
to not burst out in laughter.

From the Surat Thani railway station, we took a taxi to the Don Sak pier. From
there, we got onto a ferry that brought us to Koh Samui island. The locals here
were very uncooperative for some reason, and refused to help answer even our
simple queries. Eventually we figured out that the cheapest transport in the
island is the [Songthaew](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Songthaew) (which is
like a big shared tuk-tuk). We took one of these Songthaews to Haad Lamai - one
of the 2 most popular beaches on the island.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-first-flag.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="First flag"
    caption="The ferry ride was the perfect time for me to stitch onto my
        backpack the first of hopefully many flags" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-koh-samui-arrival.jpg"
    title="Arrival"
    caption="Arrival in Koh Samui" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-kini-great-lengths.jpg"
    title="Kini Precision Photography"
    caption="Kini goes to great lengths to get that perfect shot<br>
        what a pity we'll never find out how the pictures turned out :(" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-songthaew-ride.jpg"
    title="Songthaew Ride"
    caption="Riding on the back of a Songthaew" %}

After a long and tiring search for cheap rooms, OJ & I came across iBed. It was
a fairly new backpackers' hostel, but it was far from cheap. A quick look inside
revealed a stylish, swanky establishment with all modern comforts. Despite the
steep price, it seemed like the perfect place to stay, and we wasted no time in
renting four beds in a private'ish space. The problem with staying in a posh
place like iBed was that we didn't feel like getting out of there much. Given
our track record of lazing around even in the crappiest hotel rooms, one can
imagine how it was in iBed.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-ibed-entrance.jpg"
    title="Hotel Entrance"
    caption="The entrance to iBed" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-ibed-beds.jpg"
    title="Beds"
    caption="Our private space" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-ibed-aisle-beds.jpg"
    title="Aisle Beds"
    caption="The not-so-private aisle beds" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-ibed-tv-in-bed.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="TV In Bed"
    caption="It can get really hard to get out of bed when it comes with a TV" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-ibed-common-computer.jpg"
    title="Lobby Computer"
    caption="Free to use computer + Crazy guys = Nonsense" %}

The first night we went to check out the night life in Chaweng, Koh Samui's main
beach. The second evening we went to the Lamai beach, swam in the sea, lounged
in the pool, chilled in the bar and bought tickets for a snorkelling trip the
next day.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-walkway-to-beach.jpg"
    title="Walkway to the beach"
    caption="Walkway to the beach" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-ek-soch.jpg"
    title="Ek Soch"
    caption="Ek soch" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-aur-ek-soch.jpg"
    title="Aur Ek Soch"
    caption="Aur ek soch" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-10-chilling-at-beach.jpg"
    title="Chilling by the beach"
    caption="Chilling by the beach" %}
