---
layout: post
title: Thailand – the land of smiles
categories:
- India
- Thailand
excerpt: OJ & I landed in Mumbai at around 1 am. VMK and Kini had come to the domestic airport to meet us. From there, all of us got into a cab to go to the international airport. On the way, VMK suddenly remembered that we needed to stock up on Indian cigarettes and OJ suddenly remembered that we needed to stock up on Rajnigandha. Did you note how I said "we" needed to stock up?
---

OJ & I landed in Mumbai at around 1 am. VMK and Kini had come to the domestic
airport to meet us. From there, all of us got into a cab to go to the
international airport. On the way, VMK suddenly remembered that we needed
to stock up on Indian cigarettes and OJ suddenly remembered that we needed to
stock up on [Rajnigandha](http://rajnigandha.com). Did you note how I said "we"
needed to stock up? That is because that is exactly how the need was described,
even though awareness of the need was restricted to the source of the need. So
off we went in search of a paan shop in the middle of the night. Thank heavens
we found one on the way. If we hadn't, I'm almost certain that we would have
roamed the entire city in search of a shop to buy these indispensable items
from, even at the cost of missing our flight.

The flight took off at 5.30 am Indian time, and landed at Suvarnabhumi
International airport in Bangkok at 10.30 am local time. The visa on arrival
system was fairly simple and to encourage tourism, Thailand had waived off the
visa fees till March this year. The only thing you needed to show to be granted
a visa were your return trip tickets. VMK, Kini & OJ had booked return flights
so they had everything they needed, but I hadn’t bought any ticket out of
Thailand as I was planning on crossing over into Cambodia by road. I was hoping
that the visa officer would consider my case and grant me a visa as well, but
that was not to be. He insisted on a flight ticket out of Thailand, so I was
left with no choice but to buy one at the airport itself.

Animesh, a friend from Bangalore and [an experienced traveller
himself](https://desibackpacker.wordpress.com) had advised me that in situations
such as these, one should just buy a ticket with any of the airlines destined
anywhere out of the current country. One should also buy cancellable tickets
(which are priced a lot higher), and once you have the visa you're after, just
go ahead and cancel them. It takes a while until the money gets refunded to you,
but at least you don't incur a large cancellation fee.

So OJ & I went looking for a ticketing counter, while Kini and VMK waited with
our bags. The only ticketing counter available was that of Thai airways, and
there were no cancellable tickets available. Booking a ticket and later
canceling it would cost me at least 2000 THB, and I didn't want to spend so much
for no reason. So we found an internet cafe at the airport itself, and
"manufacured" a return ticket.

The visa officer was satisfied with my "ticket" and gave me the visa. All of us
were now authorised to travel around the land of smiles for the next 15 days.
