---
layout: post
title: New Delhi
categories:
- India
excerpt: I knew that I always had a home in OJ’s place whenever I was in New Delhi, but this time it turned out to be even better. OJ’s parents had gone to Rajasthan to attend a wedding, so we had the entire house to ourselves. We also had OJ's motorcycle at our disposal
---

I knew that I always had a home in OJ’s place whenever I was in New Delhi, but
this time it turned out to be even better. OJ’s parents had gone to Rajasthan to
attend a wedding, so we had the entire house to ourselves. We also had OJ's
motorcycle at our disposal (the same one with which I had made [my solo trip
through Uttarakhand]({% post_url 2009-10-10-a-germ-of-an-idea %})).

In the five days we spent in Delhi, we traveled almost all over the huge city
with no clear idea of where exactly we were going.

Some of the things that I did manage to do were:

- Visited [Delhi Kannada
  School](https://www.facebook.com/Delhi-kannada-school-130157357095627) where I
  had studied between 1987 and 1991. I met the current principal of the school,
  who knew who the principal was when I was there more than 20 years ago.
  Although not much had changed, the school and its playground seemed much much
  smaller than I remembered.

- Visited the flat where we used to live then. The current owner of the flat was
  really nice, and when he heard that I used to live there 20 years ago, he
  actually invited me in and let me look around :)

- After visits to numerous offices around the city (which were not easy to
  locate), I finally figured out where to arrange for a duplicate birth
  certificate for my brother. My brother had been born in Delhi but my parents
  had misplaced his birth certificate and that was often turning out to be a
  problem. I did apply for a duplicate, but the clerk told me a long story about
  how he cannot issue birth certificates because of some software problem. But
  then if I paid him a bribe, it could be done. I refused to pay, so I didn't
  get the certificate.

- Met the super-wealthy family of a girl with whom my parents wanted to arrange
  my marriage

- Checked out portions of the [Jawaharlal Nehru University
  (JNU)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jawaharlal_Nehru_University,_Delhi),
  where Jana wanted to apply for a job as a German teacher

- Ate a lot of Rajma-Chawal, Chole-Phulke and Chana-Bhatura

- Drank a shitload of chai

I wanted to get myself injected with a lot of vaccinations while in Delhi, as I
had been told that this would be a pre-requisite to obtain several visas, but
that completely slipped my mind. Thank goodness for that. Never did the subject
of vaccinations come up in any visa related matter, and I am thankful I was
saved both the hassle and the associated risks.

Finally, after a week in New Delhi, it was time for Jana to go back to Varanasi
and for me to fly to Mumbai. I was super-sad to part with Jana but that was how
it had to be. A few hours later, OJ and I boarded our flight to Mumbai.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-with-ojs-motorcycle.jpg"
    title="Motorcycle"
    caption="OJ's Standard Bullet that we had at our disposal" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-dks-building.jpg"
    title="Old school"
    caption="My old school building - seems so small compared to how I remember
        it" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-dks-main-gate.jpg"
    title="Old school main gate"
    caption="Even the main gate of the school used to seem much bigger in the
        past" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-at-old-flat.jpg"
    title="Old flat"
    caption="In our old flat in Delhi where we lived from 1987 till 1991" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-at-old-playground.jpg"
    title="Old playground"
    caption="The playground where small me used to play everyday" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-the-lotus-temple.jpg"
    title="Lotus temple"
    caption="Lotus Temple - the famous Bahá'í House of Worship" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-lodhi-garden.jpg"
    title="Lodhi garden"
    caption="At the Lodhi Garden" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-rashtrapati-bhavan.jpg"
    title="Rashtrapati bhavan"
    caption="Rashtrapati Bhavan - where the President of India lives" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-sexologist.jpg"
    title="Sexologist"
    caption="Sexologist" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-jana-at-czech-embassy.jpg"
    title="Czech embassy"
    caption="We searched for the Czech embassy just so that we could take this
        picture" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-slow-moving-traffic.jpg"
    title="Slow moving traffic"
    caption="It's no fun to be out on the roads at peak hours" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-with-oj-outside-some-mall.jpg"
    title="With OJ"
    caption="Posing with OJ outside one of New Delhi's large shopping malls" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-07-making-che-smoke.jpg"
    title="Making Che smoke"
    caption="Che on my T-shirt really seemed in need of a smoke" %}
