---
layout: post
title: Wrapping up Siem Reap
categories:
- Cambodia
excerpt: Paul and Juli had gone their own ways, Talita had gone on ahead to Phnom Penh, and Echo seemed to have totally disappeared from the scene; so I had to wrap up the last few temples on my list by myself.
---

Paul and Juli had gone their own ways, Talita had gone on ahead to Phnom Penh,
and Echo seemed to have totally disappeared from the scene; so I had to wrap up
the last few temples on my list by myself.

As usual, I rented a bicycle from the guesthouse and started off towards Angkor
Wat. On the way, I saw a volleyball game in progress so I stopped to watch for a
while.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-22-volleyball-game.jpg"
    title="Volleyball game"
    caption="Volleyball game" %}

Sras Srang & Banteay Kdei, which I went to next, had nothing special to offer.
But there was a pleasant surprise at Ta Phrom. There was a board that said that
this temple was being restored and preserved in joint collaboration of the
governments of India & Cambodia.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-22-indiyeah.jpg"
    title="Indiyeah"
    caption="Indiyeah!!" %}

The most impressive part about the Ta Phrom temple are the huge trees growing
inside. These are the same trees featured in the Tomb Raider movie.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-22-huge-trees-1.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="Huge trees 1"
    caption="Huge trees 1" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-22-huge-trees-2.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="Huge trees 2"
    caption="Huge trees 2" %}

On the way back from Ta Phrom, I spied a tall temple that didn't seem to arouse
anyone's interest. It turned out to be a temple called Baksei Cham Krong, and was
totally devoid of tourists. I climbed the steep steps to the top to find a
reclining Buddha and looked all around peacefully without a single other person
in sight - the first time this has happened in tourist infested Siem Reap.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-22-baksei-cham-krong.jpg"
    title="Baksei Cham Krong"
    caption="The deserted Baksei Cham Krong temple" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-22-reclining-buddha.jpg"
    title="Reclining Buddha"
    caption="Reclining Buddha at Baksei Cham Krong" %}

Next I went back to Angkor Wat for one last look. Despite so many visits to
Angkor Wat over the past few days, I feel that I still haven't covered it well
enough. [Although on an earlier occasion]({% post_url 2010-02-17-angkor-wat %}),
I had been privy to sections that were off limits for tourists, there was a lot
that I had glazed over. I simply didn't have the time to cover it now, so it
would have to wait until my next visit.

In the evening, I went to Kantha Bopha hospital for a cello concert cum
fund-raising event by Dr. Beat Richner. Dr. Richner had set up the hospital to
provide free treatment for dying children in Cambodia, and spoke about the work
he has been doing there for more than 15 years. If you wish to support his
cause, please take a look at [his
website](http://www.beatocello.com){:target="_blank"}.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-22-beat-richner-cello.jpg"
    title="Beat Richner"
    caption="Dr. Beat Richner with his cello" %}

Met some nice new people at the guesthouse and enjoyed a game of pool with them
before calling it a day.
