---
layout: post
title: Atacames
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: I checked out of my hotel room early in the morning to get to Atacames and look for a place there. As luck would have it, the owners of the hotel at Sua were also going to Atacames, and they were happy to give me a lift in their car.
---

I checked out of my hotel room early in the morning to get to Atacames and look
for a place there. As luck would have it, the owners of the hotel at Sua were
also going to Atacames, and they were happy to give me a lift in their car.
Rooms in Atacames were still in short supply, and all I could manage to find was
a tiny place for 10 USD.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-30-huge-fish-head.jpg"
    title="huge-fish-head"
    caption="Head of a huge fish that was washed up on the shore in Sua" %}

After keeping my bag, I went for a stroll on the beach and found an absolutely
_superb_ place to sit and read. Some time later, a guy turned up there and we
tried to make conversation. He didn't speak any English, so we had to resort to
my almost non-existent Spanish. The guy was a dentist called Ignacio and said
that this was his regular relaxing spot whenever he had some free time. The
conversation soon turned to more complicated topics like arranged marriages in
India, and then there was no hope. Luckily though, I had an English-Spanish
dictionary in my backpack and we found an American girl who spoke perfect
Spanish to translate for us.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-30-secluded-reading-place.jpg"
    title="secluded-reading-place"
    caption="My personal secluded reading place by the sea" %}

Later Ignacio took me to his office and to an internet centre. We walked all
over town before heading to his regular lunch place. After lunch, we went back
to the beach and walked along it for almost 2 hours to the next beach of
Tonsupa. On the way, we passed many sea-side homes destroyed by a tsunami a few
years ago.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-30-ignacio-workplace.jpg"
    title="ignacio-workplace"
    caption="Ignacio's workplace" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-30-walking-to-tonsupa.jpg"
    title="walking-to-tonsupa"
    caption="Walking to Tonsupa" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-30-sunset-at-atacames.jpg"
    title="sunset-at-atacames"
    caption="Sunset at Atacames" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-30-house-with-a-view.jpg"
    title="house-with-a-view"
    caption="What a view this house would have!!" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-30-tsunami-damage.jpg"
    title="tsunami-damage"
    caption="Tsunami damage" %}

We chilled at Tonsupa for a bit before catching a tri-cyclo back to Atacames.
After a quick shower, we headed out to check out the active nightlife of
Atacames going from one noisy crowded dancing place to the next. It reminded me
a lot of Bangkok, but I was super tired from the long walk earlier, and had to
come back early to crash. Ignacio came to my room piss-drunk some time in the
middle of the night. I remember opening the door for him in my slumber, after
which we were both out in a flash as soon as our heads hit the pillows.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-30-dictionary.jpg"
    title="dictionary"
    caption="Ignacio & I with our saviour - the dictionary :)" %}

In the morning, I thanked Ignacio for making my time in Atacames memorable, bade
farewell to both him and the Pacific ocean and started my journey back to Quito.
