---
layout: post
title: Medellin
categories:
- Colombia
---

I arrived in Medellin early in the morning, and took a metro to get to the part
of town where the "Casa Kiwi" hostel was. On getting out of the station, I
spotted two guys with large backpacks. This could only mean one thing -
potential taxi sharers! So without further ado, I approached them and asked if
they were also going to Casa Kiwi, and indeed they were. All the major cities of
Colombia have their own set of popular backpackers hostels in, so there's a
large likelihood of random travellers heading to the same hostel as you. Even if
they aren't going to the same hostel, most of the time you can still share a
taxi as many hostels are usually close to each other.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-a-metro-station-in-medellin.jpg"
    title="metro-station-in-medellin"
    caption="A metro station in Medellin" %}

The two backpackers, Ian & Jusgen, were from Canada (and I thought Jusgen bore a
strong resemblance to [Brendan
Fraser](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/15/Brendan_Fraser_cropped.jpg)).
As we were negotiating the taxi fares, a local man came up to us and said that
our hostel was within walking distance. Since all of us were in the mood for a
morning workout, we thought we'd just walk the alleged 10 minutes to get there.
But the walk turned out to be way longer and on a way steeper road than we had
anticipated, and even before we got halfway there, the three of us were covered
in sweat. To add to our misery, we were led in wrong directions by helpful
passers-by with totally good intentions, but totally no clue about the hostel's
whereabouts. Nevertheless, after a really long and tiring walk, we did find it,
and settled into our bunks.

Ian & Jusgen just wanted to relax, but I wanted to check out the city a little
so I started walking by myself. Before long, a yellow & blue bus caught my
attention, so I went up to it to see what it was. It was a bus that would take
tourists on a guided tour of the major attractions of Medellin. Since I had
nothing better to do, I paid the 10000 pesos and hopped on. The tour began with
a round of introductions, and there was an audible collective gasp when I
introduced myself as a solo traveller from India.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-the-colourful-turibus.jpg"
    title="the-colourful-turibus"
    caption="The Colourful Turibus" %}

The tour was quite good and we saw many nice places all around Medellin. After
describing things to the other tourists in Spanish, the tour guide would
separately repeat it to me in English, and for that I was very grateful to him.
There were also a group of older tourists from Venezuela, who asked me about
Sonia Gandhi and whether there were still Maharajas who ruled the country.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-one-of-boteros-sculptures.jpg"
    title="one-of-boteros-sculptures"
    caption="One of Botero's sculptures" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-indian-vegetarian-restaurant.jpg"
    title="indian-vegetarian-restaurant"
    caption="I stumbled upon an Indian vegetarian restaurant :)" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-random-road-in-medellin.jpg"
    title="random-road-in-medellin"
    caption="Random road in Medellin" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-whispering-shells.jpg"
    title="whispering-shells"
    caption="Whispering shells" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-inside-one-of-the-numerous-churches.jpg"
    title="inside-one-of-the-numerous-churches"
    caption="Inside one of the numerous churches" %}

After the city tour, I found a nice cafe that offered free wi-fi, so I got
myself a coffee and prepared myself for a long evening of blogging. About 2
productive hours later, one of the staff of the cafe approached me and said
something. I didn't understand her that well, but I assumed that she probably
meant that it was time for me to bugger off as I had overstayed my welcome
there. So I wrapped up my things, and left. I hadn't even walked ten paces from
the shop, when a man came running up to me, and stopped me. He spoke some
English and said that they didn't want me to leave. They only wanted me to sit
at another table as they were preparing the place for some live music. He added
that the staff of the cafe were feeling very bad because I might have felt
offended. I assured the man that I was planning on going anyway, and I did not
mind the reminder at all :)

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-lambretta.jpg"
    title="lambretta"
    caption="Lambretta!!" %}

Casa Kiwi is an awesome hostel (but they could do with friendlier staff), which
not only has great outdoor areas where you can hangout with other travellers,
but also secluded spots where you can "disappear" if you'd prefer to have some
time by yourself. I was exploring it in the evening, when somebody called out,
"Googie". I was pleasantly surprised to see Shastra who I had met in San Agustin
about 2 weeks back. We were soon joined by her partner Stuart, and we chatted
for a bit. Another old acquaintance I met at Casa Kiwi was Thom, the Aussie
traveller who I had met at my hostel in Quito and with whom I had initially made
plans of crossing the border into Colombia.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-the-lobby-of-casa-kiwi.jpg"
    title="the-lobby-of-casa-kiwi"
    caption="The lobby of Casa Kiwi" %}

The next day I joined Jusgen for the famed Pablo Escobar tour, one of the
popular touristy things to do in Medellin (for the uninitiated, Pablo Escobar
was a Colombian druglord, one of the most notorious gangsters in history and
widely regarded as the richest criminal ever). The tour van picked us up from
our hostel, and took us to various places around the city that were frequented
by Escobar and his gang members. The tour guide seemed to know quite a bit about
the famous gangster, but he couldn't explain it in English so well. Moreover,
instead of just stating the facts, he would introduce his own opinions and
judgements. What I found amusing was that he would pepper all his sentences with
an English swear word used to accuse a person of copulating with his/her own
female parent. When spoken in his Colombian accent, it had a funny poetic
quality to it :D All in all, I thought that the Pablo Escobar tour was just an
expensive waste of time.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-what-was-once-escobars-office.jpg"
    title="what-was-once-escobars-office"
    caption="What was once Escobar's office" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-the-shrine-where-escobars-men-used-to-pray.jpg"
    title="the-shrine-where-escobars-men-used-to-pray"
    caption="The shrine where Escobar's men used to pray" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-the-house-where-escobar-spent-his-last-days.jpg"
    title="the-house-where-escobar-spent-his-last-days"
    caption="The house where Escobar spent his last days" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-the-roof-on-which-he-was-shot.jpg"
    title="the-roof-on-which-he-was-shot"
    caption="The roof on which he was shot" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-wreckage-of-old-planes-used-by-escobar-to-smuggle-drugs.jpg"
    title="wreckage-of-old-planes-used-by-escobar-to-smuggle-drugs"
    caption="Wreckage of old planes used by Escobar to smuggle drugs" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-escobars-grave.jpg"
    title="escobars-grave"
    caption="Escobar's grave" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-19-boteros-depiction-of-escobars-killing.png"
    title="boteros-depiction-of-escobars-killing"
    caption="Botero's depiction of Escobar's killing" %}

In the evening, I said a hasty goodbye to all my new friends at Casa Kiwi and
hurried to the bus terminal. I wanted to take the 7.30 pm bus to Santa Marta on
the Caribbean coast of Colombia, but nothing could have prepared me for what was
to happen next.
