---
layout: post
title: Mexico is out
categories:
- Thailand
excerpt: I had to leave Tomi's house today as he would be having a friend over, but he agreed to let me keep my backpack at his house during the day while I roamed the city. The first thing I did was to go the closest mall, called Times Square, to look for some free wifi.
---

I had to leave Tomi's house today as he would be having a friend over, but he
agreed to let me keep my backpack at his house during the day while I roamed the
city. No points for guessing that the first thing I did was to go the closest
mall to look for some free wifi. The mall was called Times Square and I hit pay
dirt over there right away as it had a stable connection with really amazing
speed. I decided to make the most of it by staying there for a long time and
finishing most of my online work. A brown guy sitting on a bench with a laptop
for so long must have looked very suspicious, because soon there appeared a
security guy walking around my bench trying hard to get a look into my screen to
see what I was up to. I pretended not to notice him and went about my business.
Without having any valid reason to question me, he gave up after a while and
walked away.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-15-times-square-mall.jpg"
    title="Times Square mall"
    caption="Times Square mall - great internet connection, but otherwise
        utterly average" %}

From there, I went looking for the Mexican embassy, which I found rather easily.
Having travelled around Bangkok these past few days, I have become quite an
expert at getting around the city using the BTS (skytrain) and the MRT (subway).
But there was disappointment in store for me at the embassy. The consulate
officer took my passport and visa application and disappeared inside. When she
returned, she told me that since I was just a tourist, she couldn't accept my
visa application. She told me that I needed to apply for a visa to Mexico in my
home country itself, and there was nothing more she could help me with. I'm
considering trying again at the Mexican embassies in Vietnam or perhaps the US,
but frankly, in my heart I have the feeling that I’m not going to Mexico anytime
soon :(

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-15-colourful-traffic.jpg"
    title="Colourful traffic"
    caption="The colourful taxis add a lot of vibrance to the Bangkok traffic"
        %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-15-long-escalators.jpg"
    title="Long escalators"
    caption="Metro stations are deep underground, which means long escalator
        rides" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-15-metro-station.jpg"
    title="Metro stations"
    caption="Accidentally falling onto the tracks is out of the question as the
        doors open only when a metro arrives.<br>
        Also note the helpful yellow arrows" %}

With nothing else to do, I walked the streets randomly and came across a market
filled with locals. I went inside to try my luck finding a comb. People in the
market couldn’t understand a word of what I was saying, but I managed to mime
what I wanted, and successfully procured a nice little comb for myself.

At the market there was a lady selling fried fish, which she had packed neatly
in groups of four. She held up 5 fingers when I asked the price of one of the
packets. I couldn’t believe my luck. I was getting 4 fried fish for 5 Baht...
incredible, right?

Wrong.

When I took the packet and gave her 5 Baht, she looked at me as if she was
looking at a lunatic. It didn't take me too long to figure out that each of her
fingers stood for 10 bahts, and it took me even lesser time to drop the fish and
get the hell out of there.

Right now, I'm sitting at one of the "posher" eating joints in town,
contemplating my next move. Now that I've hit a blank wall with the visa
process, there's no point in me spending any more time in Bangkok. I'm going to
look for another host for tonight, and if I'm unable to find anybody, I'm  going
to just make my way towards Cambodia right away.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-15-all-my-belongings.jpg"
    title="All my belongings"
    caption="All my belongings during my trip have to fit into those two bags"
        %}
