---
layout: post
title: Tattoo
categories:
- Colombia
excerpt: The next day I went back to where I'd seen the two tattoo studios.
---

The next day I went back to where I'd seen the two tattoo studios.

The first one looked like a really professional outfit, with large pictures of
their work adorning the walls. All the tattoos on display were really
remarkable, executed no doubt by a very gifted set of artists. The people also
seemed friendly and were as usual super surprised to hear that I was from India.
When I showed them what sort of design I had in mind, they said it was do-able
and gave me a quote of 250,000 Colombian pesos along with a 10% off discount
coupon.

The second place was much smaller than the first, and had a single artist called
Alvaro Calle who'd been in the tattooing business for the last 16 years. The
guys here were super excited when I showed them my design; and gave me a lot of
suggestions on how it could be improved. I was also invited into their studio to
watch while another customer got their tattoo done. The quote at this shop was a
bit higher at 300,000 Colombian pesos, but I still decided to get my tattoo made
here as I liked these guys.

My design was that of a Buddha, but the head was from one picture and the body
was from another. Moreover, in the print out that I had, the head was much
larger than the body. So before we could get started, the guys at the tattoo
shop spent more than an hour simply resizing the head to match the body. When
they were finally happy, Alvaro - the artist - made a rough outline on my back.
But it was too high. I wanted it to be such that when I wore a shirt, there
would be no indication there was a tattoo underneath. So he rubbed off the
outline and drew another one a bit lower. This time it was in the right spot.
Before beginning the process, he asked me if I really wanted it. This was going
to be on my back for the rest of my life, and now was the final chance to back
out. I didn't, and we got started.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-14-head-body.jpg"
    title="head-body"
    caption="I wanted the head on the left to go on the body on the right" %}

I had heard that getting a tattoo was a very painful process, so I grit my teeth
and prepared for the first prick of the needle. But I hardly felt it at all, and
for the first half an hour thought that those stories of pain and suffering were
only to discourage people from ever trying it. However over the next few hours,
as Alvaro dug into the skin of my back to put the ink in there and constantly
rubbed it to wipe the blood off, the pain steadily increased. In some portions,
it hurt a lot more than in others, and it caused me to flinch every now and
then. Also every once in a while, Alvaro would say "cinco minutos" (five
minutes), go outside and stand in the middle of the road blinking his eyes. Or
else he would take his bicycle and go for a ride around the block. It took
almost 7 hours before Alvaro announced that the tattoo is now complete.

I thanked them, paid the money, bought some of the things that were needed to
take care of the tattoo and walked back to the hostel. Everyone at the hostel
said that it was an excellent piece of art executed by a real maestro. There was
no way I could reach the whole tattoo, so Pedro said he would help me rub the
moisturizer onto it for the next few days. How long the tattoo will continue to
look good will mainly depend on how well I look after it over the next few
weeks.

I had crossed a line today. I was now among those who had their pristine natural
bodies tainted forever by a man-made drawing. When I thought about it, it was
funny that my new tattoo was something that belonged to me, but I would never
actually be able to _really_ see it.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-14-the-final-product.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="the-final-product"
    caption="The final product" %}
