---
layout: post
title: Quilotoa
categories:
- Ecuador
---

I had worked really really hard the past week, on not only the pond but also
various other construction related projects in the school. On Saturday, I was
planning on sleeping in and just doing nothing all day long. But Lizzy & Nicolas
had other plans for me. At half past six on Saturday morning, they had already
woken me up and were standing next to my bed with huge grins.

Thirty minutes later, Lizzy, Nicolas, Tanya, Ed, Dotahn, Emmily & I were headed
towards the legendary
[Quilotoa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quilotoa){:target="_blank"} caldera. It
had been formed by a powerful volcanic eruption about 800 years ago. It has
since accumulated water to form a 250 metre deep lake.

The first look at the lake just takes your breath away. It was one of the most
amazing sights that I have ever witnessed! Mighty mountains forming a ring
around the large lake filled with green water under the expansive sky, with not
a single man-made structure in view. Everyone else in our group was equally
mesmerized, because for a good five minutes nobody said anything. Everyone was
trying to soak in the magnificient beauty of the place.

Emma & Damir had recently come to Quilotoa, and had gone down to the lake
instead of trekking along the crater. According to them, going down to the water
was not such a good idea because there's nothing much to do once you get down
there. Swimming is out of the question as the water is highly toxic. Then there
is a gruelling two hour steep hike to get back up. They had advised us to trek
around the crater, and not bother with going down. Unless your name is Mr. Lance
Armstrong, you *cannot* go down to the lake, come back up and then do the trek
along the crater on the same day.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-first-look-at-quilotoa.jpg"
    title="first-look-at-quilotoa"
    caption="The first look at Quilotoa" %}

It was going to be a 12 km (7.5 mile) walk along the crater, which we estimated
would take about 3 to 4 hours. But we *totally* underestimated that. By the time
we had conquered the first climb, everyone was dead tired, and already
considering going back the way we had come. Yours truly, who normally prides
himself on being in decent shape and making hikes where others struggle look
easy, was the last one to get up there.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-killer-climb.jpg"
    title="killer-climb"
    caption="The climb that almost killed me" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-handsome-horse.jpg"
    title="handsome-horse"
    caption="Handsome horse along the way" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-white-white-brown-white-white.jpg"
    title="white-white-brown-white-white"
    caption="White, white, brown, white, white" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-peaceful-but-highly-toxic-water.jpg"
    title="peaceful-but-highly-toxic-water"
    caption="The peaceful but highly toxic water" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-long-way-to-go.jpg"
    title="long-way-to-go"
    caption="Still a long way to go" %}

But once we had rested for a bit and I had gotten acclimatised to the thin air,
I was able to once again lead the the way. During the walk, sometimes you could
see all the way till the horizon and only a few minutes later, passing clouds
would limit visibility to only a few meters. But what strikes you the most is
the astonishing variety of landscapes that you come across. For a while, you're
trekking on typical mountain terrain, and then suddenly you're on barren land,
then in a patch of cloudy pine forest, then on a sandy beach like area, then in
a weird un-earthly landscape, then in a dense rainforest like region - the
variety is simply incredible and very very strange. And all this, as Ed put it,
when you're looking at the lake from every f***ing angle possible :)

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-lush-green-valleys-to-wet-marshland.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="lush-green-valleys-to-wet-marshland"
    caption="From the lush green valleys to wet marshland" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-wet-marshland-to-dense-rainforest.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="wet-marshland-to-dense-rainforest"
    caption="From the wet marshland to the dense rainforest" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-rainforest-to-the-moon.jpg"
    title="rainforest-to-the-moon"
    caption="From the rainforest and onto the moon" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-moon-to-pine-forest.jpg"
    title="moon-to-pine-forest"
    caption="From the lunar surface and into the foggy pine forest" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-pine-forest-to-beach.jpg"
    title="pine-forest-to-beach"
    caption="From the pine forest to the beach" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-beach-to-lush-green-valleys.jpg"
    title="beach-to-lush-green-valleys"
    caption="From the beach back to the lush green valleys" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-circuit-complete.jpg"
    title="circuit-complete"
    caption="Finally completing the circuit to where we had started from" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-18-all-of-us.jpg"
    title="all-of-us"
    caption="All of us" %}

It took us a good 5 hours, and every last bit of energy and willpower to finish
the circuit, but in the end, it was a feat well accomplished and well worth the
effort. The journey back to the hostel was swift because the Gods of transport
were clearly on our side. We got the next connecting mode of transport almost as
soon as we were out of the previous one.

For another great account of our trip, I would recommend [Emmily & Dotahn's blog
post about
it](http://emmtahn.wordpress.com/2010/05/20/quilotoa){:target="_blank"}. They
also made this excellent video!

{% include video.html
    code="CZBNvgRerN8"
    caption="Emmily & Dotahn's superb video of our hike along the crater" %}
