---
layout: post
title: Travel week
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: I was going to take a week off to travel with Nicolas & Lizzy. But Nicolas had to stay back and finish the theatre show he had been working on at the library and Lizzy had been bitten by a dog a few days earlier. So it looked like I would be going on my own.
---

I was going to take a week off to travel with Nicolas & Lizzy. But Nicolas had
to stay back and finish the theatre show he had been working on at the library
and Lizzy had been bitten by a dog a few days earlier. So it looked like I would
be going on my own.

On a side note, almost every dog I have encountered in South America so far has
been super aggressive and unfriendly. The only dog that is friends with me is
Blacky (who happens to be all white, by the way). I am the only one who calls
her Blacky, and all my efforts of getting everyone else to use that name have
been in vain. Nobody knows whose dog she actually is, but since she's always
hanging out with the volunteers, she's unofficially become our dog. Her
friendliness towards the volunteers doesn't extend to the lambs of local
farmers, and she has been known to attack and kill more than a few lambs. The
farmers obviously don't like that very much and have apparently often complained
to Robert. But Robert hasn't done anything about it so far, so for now, Blacky
is still with us.

Anyway, coming back to the story, Lizzy had her dog-bite checked by a local
doctor, who had asked her to keep an eye on the dog and see if it dies within
the next 10 days. To be sure that it wasn't anything serious, she couldn't leave
Salasaca before 10 days. Since she didn't want to hang around waiting to see
what happens to the dog, she decided to join me to travel for a week, and then
come back to check on the dog.

We decided to go south to a famous town called
[Cuenca](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuenca,_Ecuador){:target="_blank"}, and
found somebody to host us via couchsurfing. Our host, Seth, turned out to be an
American from Madison, Wisconsin who had been working as a teacher at Cuenca for
a few years. Lizzy had gone to school in Madison, so they knew a lot of common
hangout places, and also shared similar tastes in music.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-with-seth-and-lizzy.jpg"
    title="with-seth-and-lizzy"
    caption="With Seth & Lizzy in Seth's home" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-seths-home.jpg"
    title="seths-home"
    caption="Seth's home" %}

Cuenca turned out to be a beautiful town with huge cathedrals and cobble-stoned
streets. We spent 3 days in Cuenca simply walking around most of the time. In
between walks, we found time to watch a movie, visit a museum and cook an
absolutely horrendous meal for Seth.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-cuenca.jpg"
    title="cuenca"
    caption="Cuenca" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-free-wifi.jpg"
    title="free-wifi"
    caption="Making full use of the free wifi in the park" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-cobble-stoned-streets.jpg"
    title="cobble-stoned-streets"
    caption="Narrow cobble-stoned streets" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-smiling-nun.jpg"
    title="smiling-nun"
    caption="The smiling nun" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-what-not-to-cook-for-your-host.jpg"
    title="what-not-to-cook-for-your-host"
    caption="What not to cook for your host" %}

From Cuenca, we went to
[Azogues](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Azogues){:target="_blank"} and walked up
to the famous church in the nearby town of Biblian. The church is located on the
side of a hill with the mountain itself serving as the back wall.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-super-slippery-streets-of-biblian.jpg"
    title="super-slippery-streets-of-biblian"
    caption="The super-slippery streets of Biblian" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-church-on-the-mountain.jpg"
    title="church-on-the-mountain"
    caption="The church with the mountain as the back wall" %}

There was also a huge statue of Mother Mary on top of a hill in Azogues. What I
would've really liked to do was to hike up to the statue, but I simply didn't
have the time to do it. Hopefully I can come back to Azogues and get up there
sometime.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-azogues.jpg"
    title="azogues"
    caption="The town of Azogues, with the large statue atop the hill"
    courtesy="http://static.panoramio.com/photos/large/28723437.jpg" %}

The next day I wanted to take the ride on the roof of a train over the Nariz del
Diablo (the Devil's nose), but it was too late by the time we left Azogues. I
was to later learn that my initial disappointment was unnecessary, because
riding on top of the train wouldn't have been possible anyway as it had been
indefinitely terminated owing to some fatalities. There are some beautiful
pictures of the train ride on [this blog
post](http://wherewebe.com/index_2012_04-10_nariz_del_diablo.html){:target="_blank"}.

Our next stop after Azogues was [Rio
Bamba](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riobamba){:target="_blank"}, where I bought
my black cap which was to become my trademark headgear for the rest of my
travels.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-29-somewhere-along-the-way.jpg"
    title="somewhere-along-the-way"
    caption="Somewhere along the way - the greenery that is Ecuador" %}

By the end of the week, I had begun to miss Salasaca, and I was glad to be back
home on the 5th day. We played a tiring game of football and went
[pig-slapping]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-04-30-pig-slapping %}) to celebrate!
