---
layout: post
title: The last day at Katitawa
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: Today was my last working day as a volunteer at Escuela Katitawa, as I had decided to move on and continue my journey on Sunday.
---

Today was my last working day as a volunteer at Escuela Katitawa, as I had
decided to move on and continue my journey on Sunday. Like every Friday, there
were no classes so both the kids and the volunteers could take it easy. This
gave me an opportunity to click some last day snaps, and generally walk about
trying to remember how much we had accomplished in so short a time.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-anna-googie-walking.jpg"
    title="anna-googie-walking"
    caption="Anna & Googie walking to the school" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-kids-bus.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="kids-bus"
    caption="The kids play on their \"bus\"" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-megan-kevin.jpg"
    title="megan-kevin"
    caption="Megan & Kevin walk back from the farm" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-stones-into-wheelbarrow.jpg"
    title="stones-into-wheelbarrow"
    caption="Believe me, just sitting around throwing stones into a wheelbarrow
        can be a lot of fun!!" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-phone.jpg"
    title="phone"
    caption="Chinchana, Jessica & Bruna reinvent the phone" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-eddie-cristiano-guitar.jpg"
    title="eddie-cristiano-guitar"
    caption="Eddie teaches Cristiano to play the guitar" %}

Today was Matt's last working day at the school as well, but unlike me, he was
also leaving Salasaca today itself. He was catching an early bus headed to
Quito, so he was given his wooden medallion of appreciation during the Friday
morning presentation; after which we said our goodbyes and wished him luck for
his onward journey.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-matt-lija-kevin-wamari.jpg"
    title="matt-lija-kevin-wamari"
    caption="Matt, Lija, Kevin & Wamari" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-bye-matt.jpg"
    title="bye-matt"
    caption="Saying goodbye to Matt (while Cristiano just cannot get enough of
        the guitar)" %}

Friday was also the day of dance practice for the kids. I had always wanted to
join the dancing, but I was really scared of Fabiola, the strict dance teacher.
But the other volunteers pleaded with her on my behalf, and she reluctantly
agreed. As soon as I had my chance, I jumped in with full fervour. A recurring
feature of the Salasacan dancing style was a full 360 degrees turn by all the
males immediately followed by a full 360 degrees turn by all the females. Since
I was not completely familiar with the dance, I was too slow in my steps and was
turning later than I was supposed to; that is after the males had finished their
turn and the females were just beginning theirs. After a few instances of my
glaring gaffe, one of the kids couldn't take it anymore and loudly shouted,
"Googie, no es mujer!!", meaning "Googie, you're not a woman!!" :)

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-googie-bollywood.jpg"
    title="googie-bollywood"
    caption="Googie trains for Bollywood" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-adorable-nursery-kids.jpg"
    title="adorable-nursery-kids"
    caption="With the adorable nursery kids" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-pond-1.jpg"
    title="pond-1"
    caption="The pond that we created" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-pond-2.jpg"
    title="pond-2"
    caption="Another view" %}

[Here]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url travels/2010-04-14-pond-work-begins
%}){:target="_blank"} is what the pond looked like just a few weeks ago.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-14-lachlans-farm.jpg"
    title="lachlans-farm"
    caption="Wherever he is, I'm sure Lachlan is proud of his farm" %}

[Why Lachlan's
farm?](http://katitawa.blogspot.com/2009/07/blog-post_30.html){:target="_blank"}

At lunch time, I got my wooden medallion of appreciation as well along with a
farewell speech from Rupinho (of which I understood not a single word, but
nodded solemnly every time he looked towards me as if I knew every word by
heart). It was rather difficult to finally have to say goodbye to the kids, the
ducks and the chicken with all of whom I had developed such a close friendship.
