---
layout: post
title: Back to India
categories:
- India
excerpt: Pedro had booked a taxi that would pick me up at 6 am, and he was the one who woke me up at 5.50 am :) Thankfully I had packed my bags the night before, so I could just wear my clothes, say hasty thank yous and goodbyes and run to the waiting taxi.
---

Pedro had booked a taxi that would pick me up at 6 am, and he was the one who
woke me up at 5.50 am :) Thankfully I had packed my bags the night before, so I
could just wear my clothes, say hasty thank yous and goodbyes and run to the
waiting taxi.

Passing through Vietnamese immigrations was not as straightforward as one would
expect. The woman behind the counter looked at me suspiciously for a _really_
long time - long enough for the polite smile on my face to first slowly fade
away, then turn into a frown, then a smirk, then a nervous laughter and finally
break into an uncomfortable sweat. By now I probably actually looked like a
suspicious fellow. The lady then called for backup and four other immigration
officers showed up. At this point, I was practically shitting bricks. All of
them took what felt like an eternity to compare my face to the picture in my
passport. At long last, they let me through, although very very reluctantly. I
was no doubt relieved, but also flabbergasted. I can understand immigration
officers being cautious when a foreigner is entering their country, but I
couldn't imagine why they made such a big deal about someone leaving.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-03-08-last-snap-taken-in-vietnam"
    title="last-snap-taken-in-vie"
    caption="Last snap taken in Vietnam" %}

Once I landed in Bangkok, the first thing I had to do was to get myself a visa
for Thailand. Honestly, I thought it was downright ridiculous that I had to get
a visa even if I was flying out of Bangkok in just a few hours. But that was
what was required, and there was nothing I could do except get in line for
getting a visa on arrival.

The queue was incredibly long, and moving incredibly slowly. Thankfully, I had a
lot of time until my next flight, so there was no real reason to worry. After
about 10 minutes of standing in queue, I sat myself down on the floor, opened my
netbook, connected to the public wifi, and started surfing. People around me
were giving me dirty looks because I was happily sitting, while they probably
thought it below their dignity to sit :) A European backpacking couple had no
such qualms, and they also sat down on the floor soon afterwards.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-03-08-multi-leveled-airport"
    title="multi-leveled-air"
    caption="The multi-leveled Suvarnabhumi International airport" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-03-08-another-view"
    title="another-"
    caption="Another view on the inside" %}

Once I had the visa, I could leave the airport. Since I still had a few hours to
kill, I took the airport shuttle to the public transportation center, and got
lunch there. So my last international lunch (for now) was at the same place
where I'd had my first international lunch (on this trip) with my friends almost
exactly one month ago.
