---
layout: post
title: Good morning Vietnam
categories:
- Cambodia
- Vietnam
excerpt: After firing the AK-47, I was done with Cambodia and ready for Vietnam. I purchased a bus ticket to Ho Chi Minh city (affectionately called HCMC), and while waiting for the bus, started talking to an Israeli guy called Golan. As it so happened, Golan's seat was the one right next to mine, and we continued talking about a whole lot of stuff during the journey.
---

After firing the AK-47, I was done with Cambodia and ready for Vietnam. I
purchased a bus ticket to Ho Chi Minh city (aka HCMC and Saigon), and while
waiting for the bus, started talking to an Israeli guy called Golan. As it so
happened, Golan's seat was the one right next to mine, and we continued talking
about a whole lot of stuff during the journey. Based on what I had read on the
internet, I was under the impression that I wouldn't even need to get out of the
bus all the way to HCMC. But this was not the case. Everyone on the bus needed
to alight both at the Cambodian side and at the Vietnamese side. But the process
itself was quite smooth, and we reached Vietnam without any problem.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-27-leaving-cambodia.jpg"
    title="leaving-cambodia"
    caption="Leaving Cambodia" %}

Once at HCMC, Golan and I decided to share a room, and found a decent,
not-too-expensive one after searching for a bit. Prices of accommodation in
Vietnam was way more than in Cambodia.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-27-wires.jpg"
    title="wires"
    caption="View from the room. It'll be a pain if they need to someday track a
        single wire" %}

The next morning, we booked a single day tour of the Mekong delta. I had
imagined sprawling green paddy fields in the fertile soil of the delta, but most
of the time we were traveling in boats either through the wide river or through
narrow channels with dense vegetation on both sides.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-27-bee-keeper.jpg"
    title="bee-keeper"
    caption="I may have a big grin, but I was scared shitless holding all those
        bees" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-27-dense-rainforest.jpg"
    title="dense-amazonian-rainforest"
    caption="Paddling through the dense rainforest" %}

During the lunch break, some of us took bicycles to explore the surrounding
villages. I rode into a narrow remote road for a long time, and finally found
the green paddy fields I was looking for.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-27-narrow-village-roads.jpg"
    title="narrow-village-roads"
    caption="Biking through narrow village roads " %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-27-green-field.jpg"
    title="green-field"
    caption="The landscape I was looking for" %}

On the way back, I met a friendly German girl called Sarah, with whom I had a
long conversation, which made the two hour return journey seemed like a short
ride. Golan & I also made friends with an Australian couple, Lisa & Peter, with
whom we decided to go for a half day tour of the Cu Chi tunnels the next day.

At dinner, we were joined by Lisa, a couchsurfer from Italy with whom I had
exchanged a few messages. Golan, Lisa & I went for a drink later; and came back
late into the night.
