---
layout: post
title: Fort Pierce, Miami and another breakdown
categories:
- United States of America
excerpt: The next morning I said goodbye to Nancy, along with my usual thank you postcard and went straight to the closest Avis centre. The staff here were really nice. I got a much better car - a Hyundai accent (with cruise control!) and for cheaper than the old car.
---

The next morning I said goodbye to Nancy, along with my usual thank you postcard
and went straight to the closest Avis centre. The staff here were really nice. I
got a much better car - a Hyundai accent (with cruise control!) and for cheaper
than the old car. I drove around Fort Pierce for a bit, which was actually quite
a beautiful town. It had both a river and the Atlantic ocean next to it.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-08-brave-pelicans.jpg"
    title="brave-pelicans"
    caption="Pelicans by the water - they were totally unafraid of the humans"
        %}

After having had a good look around Fort Pierce, I was just about to head
towards towards Miami when I spotted an interesting looking bus parked in a
parking lot. I stopped to take a closer look and clicked a few pictures since
nobody was around. Just as I was walking towards my car, the owner of the bus,
Bob, showed up and we started talking.

Bob told me that he, along with his dog Bogart was driving around the United
States in the bus. He was giving talks at various schools around the country
with themes promoting kindness, peace and harmony in the world. He also gave me
a few stickers to distribute to children in my school in Ecuador.

If you'd like to read more about him, his website is called [One Million Acts of
Kindness](http://www.OneMillionActsOfKindness.com){:target="_blank"}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-08-bob-and-bogart.jpg"
    title="bob-and-bogart"
    caption="With Bob, Bogart & The Kindness Bus" %}

Next stop was Miami, which was more or less as I had expected. It had tall
buildings, busy traffic, mean looking people and tough looking policemen as
every other big city in the US. Personally, I felt that it was a highly
overrated place. I would rate Fort Pierce as being more beautiful. But of course
if you have the money to live the posh life, then Miami is the place to be at.

Late in the evening, I went to Le Cafe, where the Miami couchsurfers were having
their weekly meeting. They met every Wednesday, and I just happened to be at the
right place on the right day. Some guy was teaching some basic Salsa steps to
anyone who was interested, so I joined in as well for a while. Having danced
some Salsa (and put up a dance performance) with some colleagues at work not too
long ago, it was quite easy for me to dance along.

From there I drove to the airport, returned the car at the Avis outlet and took
a shuttle bus to the main terminal. My flight to Bogota, Colombia was set to
leave at seven in the morning, and the check-in process would start only at 4
am, so I had to wait.

Finally at 4 am, when I went to check myself in, I was in for a shock. The lady
at the counter said that I could not board the flight as I didn't have a visa to
Colombia. I had assumed that I wouldn't need a visa to just transit through
Colombia, but as the famous saying goes, "Assumptions are the mother of all
f***-ups".

So here I was in the middle of yet another breakdown :)

So I had to cancel my flight from Miami to Bogota and also the onward flight
from Bogota to Guayaquil, Ecuador. Then I bought a ticket on a direct flight to
Ecuador. This, as you would expect, involved considerable damage to my pocket :(

But... there was no way around what had to be done, so I decided to try and
forget about the loss and settled in to wait near the departure gate for the
boarding process to begin. Just as they started letting passengers board the
aircraft, I heard an announcement that said, "Passenger Gautam Kotian flying on
blah blah to Guayaquil, Ecuador, please report to the airline staff". I was
like, "Oh great! Here we go again. Another breakdown!!"

As you can imagine, it was not everyday that an Indian flies from Miami to
Ecuador, and this is probably what made them nervous. They asked to see the
credit card I had used to purchase my tickets, wanted to know what exactly I was
going to do in Ecuador, and some other related stuff. But these staff were
really nice and polite, and not the least bit like the [horrendous Air Arabia
personnel]({% post_url 2010-03-21-going-global-again %}).

Once they were satisfied that I was an ok guy after all, I finally joined my
co-passengers on the plane.
