---
layout: post
title: Cali, the salsa capital of the world
categories:
- Colombia
excerpt: Like me, the Dutch couple - Cris & Kim - were also going from Popayan to Cali. Along the way, we met an American guy called Ben who was also headed to Cali. So the four of us got a bus for the short 3 hour journey, and later shared a taxi to Hostel Iguana.
---

Like me, the Dutch couple - Cris & Kim - were also going from Popayan to Cali.
Along the way, we met an American guy called Ben who was also headed to Cali. So
the four of us got a bus for the short 3 hour journey, and later shared a taxi
to Hostel Iguana.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-10-hostel-iguana.jpg"
    title="hostel-iguana"
    caption="The hard-to-spot Hostel Iguana" %}

Later at night, when the battery of my netbook was running low and I needed to
charge it, I simply could not find the power adaptor. I searched high and low,
but it was nowhere to be found. I was beginning to get worried, because once the
netbook died, getting on the internet would become quite troublesome. I did not
even have a phone that could connect to the internet, because early on when I
had just started the trip, I had [traded my sleek-but-crappy blackberry for a
simpler-but-functional phone]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url
travels/2010-01-25-meeting-jana-after-ages %}). As I was sitting in the common
area of the hostel deciding on my next course of action, I spotted the exact
same model of netbook on a side table. Its owner turned out to be a girl called
Sarah from the UK, who had been in Cali for more than 3 weeks already. Not only
did she let me borrow her power adaptor, but also said that she'd leave it out
in the lobby so that I could use it whenever I wanted - that was just awfully
nice of her.

[Pedro and I had agreed to meet in Cali if possible]({{ site.baseurl }}{%
post_url travels/2010-06-06-popayan %}) and our meeting was made tremendously
easy by the fact that hostel Iguana was exactly where he was also staying. Later
that night, just past 1 am, Pedro, Sarah, a few other guys from the hostel and I
decided to head out to check out the nightlife in Cali. We were a bunch of seven
guys and only one girl - a combination that I imagine would have a hard time
getting into clubs anywhere in the world. But not so in Cali. Clubs were more
than happy to let us all in, but the steep entry costs discouraged us poor
hostel-dorm-sharing backpackers. Finally we settled for a slightly downmarket
but nevertheless lively bar.

Here we met a group of Colombian girls who joined our group, and language
barrier notwithstanding, started cozying up to some of the luckier-than-me
individuals of our group. After a few drinks, the cozying up advanced to a
rather high degree; so much so that it became a little embarrassing to even sit
around the same table. When it was time to pay for our drinks, the
aforementioned lucky individuals were more than happy to foot the bills of their
new companions. Thereafter, our now even larger group moved to a nearby
McDonalds for "dinner" (it was close to 4 in the morning by now). I noticed with
some discomfort how the newcomers in the group ordered a bunch of stuff but once
again made no attempt to reach for their wallets. The group split thereafter in
order to make our way back to the hostel.

All of us were super surprised when the "lucky" guys also returned to the hostel
a little while later, because we had all assumed that their night would end
"happily". Apparently, the local girls made some excuse immediately after the
group split and had soon vanished into the night. Anyway, it was 6 am by now and
I was dead tired and didn't stick around to ask more questions. I stumbled my
way to my bed in the dormitory only to discover that a girl was sleeping in my
place. Someone more adventurous than I may have seen this as an opportunity to
cuddle up next to her, but despite being totally exhausted, I managed to find
myself an alternative bed.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-10-roots.jpg"
    title="roots"
    caption="The exposed roots of a tree near the hostel" %}
