---
layout: post
title: How To Confuse A Taxi Driver
categories:
- Thailand
excerpt: It was quite late when we finally got dropped off at Haad Lamai beach. We were quite sure that we'd never manage to catch the last ferry off the island, but we decided to give it a shot anyway.
---

It was quite late when we finally got dropped off at Haad Lamai beach. We were
quite sure that we'd never manage to catch the last ferry off the island, but we
decided to give it a shot anyway.

Luckily for us, there was a taxi right where we wanted it, and the driver's face
lit up when he saw us. It was obvious that we were in a rush, which meant that
we would probably pay any exorbitant fare he demanded as long as he delivered us
in time to where we wanted to go.

Kini was the first one to reach the passenger side of the cab. He stuck his face
inside and practically yelled "Don Sak pier! Don Sak pier!" at the cabbie's
face. Take a moment to consider this rough map.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-12-confuse-cab-driver.png"
    title="Rough Map"
    caption="We're right now talking to the taxi driver at Haad Lamai beach
        which is the leftmost cross in the map" %}

So from Haad Lamai beach where we were, we needed to first take some form of
road transport to Nathon pier and then get on the ferry which would take us to
Don Sak pier on the mainland. Understandably, the taxi driver was confused when
some random Indian dude was shouting "Don Sak pier" into his face. But Kini is
not one to give up that easily. Probably misinterpreting the poor cab driver's
confusion as his inability to grasp the gravity of the situation, he repeated
his frantic yelling of "Don Sak pier! Don Sak pier!".

This time, the taxi driver wasn't confused. He was plain terrified to have to
deal with a psychopath who wanted him to drive his taxi across the ocean. In no
time, he had started his car and vanished in a cloud of dust, leaving Kini
wondering what the hell just happened. The rest of us, however, were literally
falling over each other with laughter.

When we had recovered sufficiently, we got ourselves onto a bus headed to Nathon
pier. As expected, we were too late for the ferry and would hence have to spend
another night on Koh Samui island itself. Sadly, this meant that we now wouldn't
have enough time to go to Pattaya for our planned skydive.
