---
layout: post
title: Meeting Jana after ages
categories:
- India
excerpt: The alarm rang a few hours later, and groggily we got to the Kurla station to catch my train to Varanasi. Prit also bought himself a ticket on the same train till Nashik. In the train, I traded my sleek new Blackberry for his basic Samsung phone because we thought it wouldn't be very wise to travel around in South America with an obviously expensive device. Nashik came in a few hours, and we parted with hope to meet again in Europe in a few months' time.
---

We only got a few hours' worth of sleep, before it was time to leave once again.
VMK dropped Prit and me to the Kurla railway station in the wee hours of the
morning. I had bought myself a ticket to Varanasi, and Prit bought a ticket at
the last minute on the same train but only until Nashik.

A few months earlier, I had decided to buy a new mobile phone for myself (for
the last five years, I had been working for a major mobile phone manufacturer
where test phones were available aplenty. So I remember feeling a bit odd when I
had to actually spend money to buy myself a phone). So I found myself at one of
the numerous shops on CMH road - a busy commercial hub of Bangalore - which
dealt exclusively with mobile phones. Mobile phones of almost all brands and in
various price ranges could be bought there so the choice was large. But I had
decided to get one of the cheaper ones so my choice was limited. In the end I
had narrowed it down to just two phones. Something inexplicable happened between
the time I was looking at the two boxes on the counter trying to decide which
one to purchase and the time I walked out the door. Was it excellent
salesmenship on the part of the employees of the store or was it plain stupidity
on my part could be an interesting research topic I think. But the upshot was
that by the time I was walking out the door, I had burned a large hole in my
pocket and had a sleek new Blackberry in my hands. It was a phone I tried hard
to like. I ignored all the problems I continually had with it from day one. I
was in denial, perhaps because of the small fortune that I had spent on it. But
it did "look" like a pretty amazing phone.

Getting back to the story, Prit and I were on the train talking about my travels
and where I would go. We thought it would be best for me not to travel to
unknown, far-off places with such an obviously expensive phone. Prit had a
simple Samsung phone, and so we decided to exchange our phones. I think there
was a part of me that rejoiced at finally being rid of that piece of crap.

But I was definitely not happy when the train rolled into the railway station at
Nashik and Prit had to go. We parted with hope to meet again in Europe some time
later in the year.

The remaining 26 hours till Varanasi were simply an ordeal, and I was happy when
it was over. As I exited the train station, and into the mass of people, it hit
me that in all my rush of the past few days, I had forgotten to bring some small
gift for Jana. It was too late now to go looking for something to buy, so I
thought I should at least get a bouquet of flowers. I still had one hour before
she would be free to come to pick me up. That should be time enough to find a
florist and buy a bouquet, right?

Wrong.

There are no florists here. There is no concept of gifting flowers to people
here. There is actually a flowering flowers business, but those flowers are
either for the gods or for the dead (Varanasi, by the way, is for Hindus also a
popular place to die - because then you're almost guaranteed a place in Heaven).

Asking the locals for a florist finally led me to a "phoolon ki mandi", a sort
of a flower market where flowers are bought and sold only in large quantities.
Nobody wanted to sell me a few flowers, and nobody was willing, or had the
expertise to make a bouquet. Finally, I decided to make one myself. I collected
a few flowers lying around, scrounged some discarded strings, and started
earnestly on my ambitious project. One of the flower vendors who had refused to
help me earlier now took pity on me and offered to help. But he wasn't much
better than I was, but at the end we somehow made the "thing" resemble a bouquet
:) I gave him a tip for his assistance, and that made him visibly happy.

[my readers have asked me for a picture of the bouquet, but I never clicked a
snap of it :(]

Jana came to the railway station at around 4 pm, and it was simply great to see
each other after so long. We went back to her guesthouse and spent the rest of
the day just catching up.
