---
layout: post
title: Pick-pocketed in Quito
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: I was among the first people to show up at the Colombian consulate in the morning. The efficient lady behind the counter took my documents and said that they would need a few days to check if everything was in order. She also gave me a number to call on Friday morning to check whether I've been granted the visa or not.
---

I was among the first people to show up at the Colombian consulate in the
morning. The efficient lady behind the counter took my documents and said that
they would need a few days to check if everything was in order. She also gave me
a number to call on Friday morning to check whether I've been granted the visa
or not.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-21-traffic.jpg"
    title="traffic"
    caption="Traffic" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-21-spiralling-mall.jpg"
    title="spiralling-mall"
    caption="Spiralling mall" %}

Once my work at the consulate was done, I stopped at a small cafe for breakfast.
I had a 5 dollar bill in my hand when I got out of the cafe, but I was too lazy
to fish my wallet out of my back pocket and neatly keep the money in it. So I
just tucked it into the pocket of my jacket intending to keep it in the wallet
later. Then I got into one of the crowded trolley buses to get back to the
hostel. On the way, there was a brief argument between an old couple and a
younger man. During the argument, I noticed one guy move directly in front of
me, and another directly behind me. Both were carrying black plastic bags. I
found the situation a little suspicious, so I took one step to the right so that
I was no longer between them. They both got off at the next stop, while I stayed
on the bus.

On eventually getting out of the bus, I put my hand in my jacket pocket to
retrieve the 5 dollar bill. Some sub-conscious part of my brain somehow knew
that I wouldn't find anything there, and sure enough, the pocket had been
cleaned out. I was a 100% sure that the suspicious guys on the bus had stolen
it. On thinking about it, the argument between the old couple and the young guy
was probably also part of the plan and intended to divert the attention of the
would-be victim. But anyway, I was glad that I hadn't been completely distracted
and they hadn't been able to get my wallet or my camera. Five USD was a small
price to pay for a big lesson learnt.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-21-arch.jpg"
    title="arch"
    caption="At some famous arch (just after being pick-pocketed)" %}
