---
layout: post
title: Angkor Wat
categories:
- Cambodia
excerpt: Echo came back to the guesthouse early next morning, and said that she and her German friend - Juli - had found another guesthouse where a single bed cost only 1 USD per night. To be honest, I liked my current room and didn't want to leave, but it would be more practical to stay close to people I would be hanging out with, so I decided to move there.
---

Echo came back to the guesthouse early next morning, and said that she and her
German friend - Juli - had found another guesthouse where a single bed cost only
1 USD per night. To be honest, I liked my current room and didn't want to leave,
but it would be more practical to stay close to people I would be hanging out
with, so I decided to move there.

When I told Mr. Ni Ni that I was checking out, he seemed to be more angry than
disappointed. I clearly didn't remind him of his best friend then. He angrily
told me that I shouldn't listen to the Chinese girl as she is not a nice person.
He also forgot about the 1 dollar "discount" he had promised me the previous
evening.

The other guesthouse was called Garden Village, and it came with a rooftop bar.
This place was also nice, and I rented for myself a single bed in one of the
huts there.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-17-my-bed.jpg"
    title="My bed"
    caption="My bed at Garden Village" %}

In the evening, Echo & I rented a bicycle (also available at the guesthouse for
1 USD per day) and went to meet Sokda, a local couchsurfer. We chatted with him
for a bit, though between the Cambodian, Chinese & Indian accents, I suspect
nobody understood much of what the others were saying. Anyway, from there we
went to catch the sunset at Angkor Wat. Like many people around the world, I had
seen pictures of this place, but looking at it in real life was something else.
I was so mesmerised by the temple itself, that I completely forgot about the
Sun.

Like the stereotypical Chinese tourist, Echo was busy capturing pictures of
nearly everything she laid her eyes upon (and in nearly every angle she could
manage). Yours truly was also one of her subjects, and I enjoyed feeling like a
model for a while.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-17-modelling-1.jpg"
    title="Modelling 1"
    caption="Modelling at Angkor Wat - 1" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-17-modelling-2.jpg"
    title="Modelling 2"
    caption="Modelling at Angkor Wat - 2" %}

As soon as the Sun had set, a temple security guard started shooing people away.
He probably saw how awestruck I was with everything, and discreetly offered to
let me click a few pictures after everyone had left. So I hung back while he
made all the other tourists leave. He then came back and took me to some
cordoned off places where a lot of restoration work was in progress. From here,
I got some great views of the landscape around - views that will probably not be
available to the general public for quite some time to come. On the way out, I
handed 2 USD to the guard, and he was visibly pleased.
