---
layout: post
title: Sanctuario de Las Lajas & Popayan
categories:
- Colombia
excerpt: I had stayed back in the nothing-much-to-do-in town of Ipiales just to visit the Sanctuario de Las Lajas, and when I saw the majestic church the next morning, I was glad that I had stayed. The church was constructed on the side of a mountain with a bridge over a deep gorge with a river flowing underneath.
---

I had stayed back in the nothing-much-to-do-in town of Ipiales just to visit the
Sanctuario de Las Lajas, and when I saw the majestic church the next morning, I
was glad that I had stayed. The church was constructed on the side of a mountain
with a bridge over a deep gorge with a river flowing underneath.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-06-walking-to-the-church.jpg"
    title="walking-to-the-church"
    caption="Walking to the great church" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-06-sanctuario-de-las-lajas.jpg"
    title="sanctuario-de-las-lajas"
    caption="The incredibly beautiful Sanctuario de Las Lajas" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-06-facade.jpg"
    title="facade"
    caption="The facade of the church" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-06-interior.jpg"
    title="interior"
    caption="The interior (notice how the mountain itself forms the back wall)"
    %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-06-a-much-better-picture.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="a-much-better-picture"
    caption="A much better picture of the church"
    courtesy="http://cache2.allpostersimages.com/LRG/20/2097/1CP2D00Z.jpg" %}

From Ipiales, I went to Pasto; and then the next morning to Popayan. Popayan
turned out to be a laid-back town and I spent the whole day just walking around.
I also hiked to the top of El Morro del Tulcán. El Morro used to be an Indian
pyramid in the past but is now just a small hill with a statue of a Spanish
conquistador on it. As you might guess, having a statue of a Spanish
conquistador atop what used to be an indigenous monument is a bit controversial.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-06-statue-on-el-morro.jpg"
    title="statue-on-el-morro"
    caption="Statue of conquistador Sebastián de Belalcázar on top of El Morro
    del Tulcán" %}

It was a beautiful sunny day and I sat in the shade of the statue for a while
watching a couple of young men practicing their
[parkour](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parkour) moves. One of them was clearly
an expert, while the other was still learning the ropes. In the distance I also
spotted several young boys starting out with parkour. It seems quite popular
here.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-06-parkour.jpg"
    title="parkour"
    caption="Youngsters practicing parkour in Popayan" %}

Later in the evening, as I was walking back to my hostel, I heard someone shout
"Googie". I was certain I had misheard something else as "Googie" (there was no
way my notoriety had hit Popayan already). But when I heard it a second time, I
turned around slowly. The sound I had heard was indeed "Googie" because out
popped Pedro from a nearby internet centre. I couldn't believe my eyes. [When I
had left Katitawa]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url
travels/2010-05-17-the-time-to-say-goodbye %}), the remaining volunteers and I
had said our farewells with promises of meeting again some time in the future.
But in our heart of hearts, we all knew we'd probably never see each other
again. So I was overjoyed at running into not just an acquaintance but a good
friend. We spent the next few hours catching up over dinner and a few beers.

Pedro told me about how spectacular it had been to see the recent [Tungurahua
eruption](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/10189054), an event that I had missed only
by a few days. Apparently, the entire town of Baños had to be evacuated and the
whole sky had turned dark for days from all the ash being constantly spewed out
of the volcano. He also told me about how one of our fellow volunteers Morgane
had been robbed in Quito. Apparently someone had passed her a piece of paper
asking her if she knew where the address on the paper was. She couldn't remember
what happened next, but could remember brief flashes as if in a dream of her
walking down the street, going to an ATM, entering her PIN and handing over
money. When she came back to her senses, she rushed to an ATM to check, and
indeed 200 USD had been withdrawn just hours earlier.

When we decided to pay up and head out from the lounge bar we were at, we asked
the girl behind the bar for the check. But she obviously didn't hear us over the
loud music, because in a flash she had replaced our empty bottles with two newly
opened ones. We chalked it up to providence wanting us to stay longer, and
proceeded to down the two new arrivals.

Later Pedro walked me back to my hostel, and we decided to meet up again in Cali
if possible, and then possibly in Bogota at the end of the month.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-06-popayan-town-square-by-night.jpg"
    title="popayan-town-square-by-night"
    caption="Popayan town square by night" %}
