---
layout: post
title: Duong and the Hanoi CSers
categories:
- Vietnam
excerpt: A Vietnamese couchsurfer called Duong had written to me to ask if I'd like to hang out in Hanoi. She was from Ho Chi Minh city, but was in Hanoi for a few days on a work-related trip. Her couchsurfing profile was mostly empty and there were no pictures, so I was a bit hesitant at first, but then agreed to meet for coffee.
---

A Vietnamese couchsurfer called Duong had written to me to ask if I'd like to
hang out in Hanoi. She was from Ho Chi Minh city, but was in Hanoi for a few
days on a work-related trip. Her couchsurfing profile was mostly empty and there
were no pictures, so I was a bit hesitant at first, but then agreed to meet for
coffee.

Duong turned out to be a shy, sweet and soft spoken girl. We had some
communication issues thanks to our widely different accents, but we managed to
understand each other a little :)

Duong took me to have "Phở bò", a traditional Vietnamese dish in what was
apparently the best place in Hanoi to have it. It was simply amazing, and I
slurped up even the last drop from the bowl (probably to much embarrassment to
my companion). We then walked around the Old Quarter a bit, where I bought the
super-popular-among-travelers red Vietnamese flag T-shirt. Along the way, Duong
tried to teach me the correct pronunciations of common Vietnamese words, but I
forgot them maybe 5 seconds later.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-03-07-with-duong.jpg"
    title="with-duong"
    caption="With Duong" %}

Next we went to Nola cafe to attend the weekly Hanoi couchsurfing meet. Nola
cafe is a hard to find place, with the entrance from a narrow alley. It looks
really shady when you enter, but then opens up into a beautiful, well-furnished
area. We were the first ones to reach there, but were soon joined by many other
couchsurfers.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-03-07-hanoi-weekly-cs-meet.jpg"
    title="hanoi-weekly-cs-meet"
    caption="Hanoi weekly CS meet" %}

After leaving from there, I thanked Duong for a really nice evening and bid her
farewell. She took a "Xe Om" (Vietnamese for the ubiquitous motorcycle taxi) to
her hotel, and I took one back to Jelly & Pedro's after a quick phone call to OJ
to let him know that I was coming back to Delhi.

Jelly & Pedro were surprised to hear that I would be flying back to India the
next day, but agreed that it was probably the smartest thing to do. I called
Pavi as well, who was equally surprised. She said she would be working late, and
hence wouldn't be able to meet me before I left.
