---
layout: post
title: Community Dinner
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: Preparations were underway at the library for a large community dinner that had been planned for today evening. I was sitting in the library completely oblivious to the plans, until Nicolas came along and asked me if I could help in moving a pot in the kitchen.
---

Preparations were underway at the library for a large community dinner that had
been planned for today evening. I was sitting in the library completely
oblivious to the plans, until Nicolas came along and asked me if I could help in
moving a pot in the kitchen. That sounded easy enough, until I came face-to-face
with the said pot. It was MASSIVE - probably large enough to accommodate both
Nicolas & me inside with room to spare. And... it was full of chicken!

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-15-chicken.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="chicken"
    caption="Pot full of chicken" %}

Our task was to take it off the stove and set it down. But it was so heavy that
we couldn't even move it an inch. I had a brainwave just then (that must seem
unbelievable to you, dear reader, but yes, it happens sometimes). I dragged a
nearby table next to the stove, and we slowly slid the pot from the stove and
onto the table. Mission partly accomplished, as the stove could now be used to
cook something else.

My mouth was practically dripping with the sight of all that chicken, but I
hadn't yet been officially invited to feast on it. I simply had to get myself
invited for the dinner, but I had no idea how. What followed was a ridiculous
(and in hindsight absolutely embarrassing) way of self-inviting oneself, which
involved loudly exclaiming how delicious the chicken looked, multiple times,
until they finally got the hint :)

Once I had secured the dinner invitation, I went back to the library to chill.
Nicolas returned about an hour later, saying they needed help with the pot
again. The food was ready, and the ladies were moving the various pots and pans
to the theatre room of the library. But they couldn't move the giant pot of
chicken and so they needed two strong boys, namely Nicolas & I, to do it.

Our attempts at even taking the pot off the table and placing it on the ground
were utterly hopeless, let alone moving it all the way to the library. At that
time, I had a second brainwave (twice in one evening... this time I'm sure you
think I'm making this up). I asked them to bring me another large vessel, and
slowly we transferred portions of the cooked chicken into the other vessel. Once
the large pot had been sufficiently emptied, it could be moved. It still took us
a good fifteen minutes of back-breaking effort to slowly move it, one step at a
time, to the library.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-15-moving-the-pot.jpg"
    title="moving-the-pot"
    caption="Moving the pot" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-15-finally-in-the-theatre-room.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="finally-in-the-theatre-room"
    caption="Finally in the theatre room" %}

Dinner was served in one of the rooms of the library, with Robert, Nicolas & me
being the only non-Salasacans. I was told that the gathering would generally be
very noisy, but our presence caused the proceedings to be a little less
boisterous.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-15-the-non-salasacans.jpg"
    title="the-non-salasacans"
    caption="The non-Salasacans" %}

At first, everyone sitting at the tables was given plates and a small polythene
bag. When the food began to arrive, people would hold open their polythene bags
so the food could be served directly into it. This looked incredibly weird to me
and I wasn't sure if I was also supposed to hold my bag open. Luckily for me,
Robert was sitting next to me and explained that the food in the bags was meant
either for relatives at home who couldn't come for the dinner or to have the
next day. We knew that most people in the community were not very well off, and
organizing such a large feast required contributions from everyone, often more
than they could really afford. So we chose to keep our polythene bags empty and
just be content with full stomachs.
