---
layout: post
title: The Tuol Sleng genocide museum
categories:
- Cambodia
excerpt: Today was a very productive day blogging wise. I went to the Lazy Gecko cafe close to my guesthouse, and sat there for close to 4 hours. They offer free wi-fi to their customers (as long as your bill exceeds $3). This was the third time in 2 days that I was going there
---

Today was a very productive day blogging wise. I went to the Lazy Gecko cafe
close to my guesthouse, and sat there for close to four hours. They offer free
wi-fi to their customers (as long as the bill exceeds $3). This was the third
time in 2 days that I was going there, and the staff had become quite friendly
with me. One of them even asked me if he could login to skype from my netbook,
to which I happily obliged. Highly recommended place. Also, for a change, their
menu is written in perfect English.

There was a couchsurfer called Rudie who had invited any travellers in town to
hang out at OK guesthouse where he was staying, and I thought I'd go say hello
to him. So I rented a motorbike taxi and set off with nothing but the name of
his guesthouse. I hadn't been able to find a map of the city yet, so I really
had no idea where to go. I thought I'd just ask people along the way, but as
you'd expect, nobody understood me. Whoever I asked either gave me a blank
expression or a broad smile, but no real help.

At long last I found an English speaking student who had no idea where OK
guesthouse was, but he taught me how to say "where OK guesthouse?" in Khmer. To
me it sounded something similar to "nateeney patheysamne OK?". I repeated my
newly learnt Khmer sentence several times until I thought I had it right. But
when I put it to use, the results were worse. The blank expressions only turned
blanker, and the broad smiles only turned broader. So I gave up and stuck to
English.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-25-independence-monument.jpg"
    title="independence-monument"
    caption="The Independence monument" %}

Finally, after a frustrating 20 minutes of riding around aimlessly, I met a
tuk-tuk driver who not only spoke decent English, but also knew the exact
location of the guesthouse. So I met with Rudie, chatted with him for a bit, and
then headed off to find the Tuol Sleng genocide museum (also known as S-21).

Tuol Sleng used to be a school once upon a time. Later, under the Khmer Rouge
regime, it was converted into a prison, and today it is a museum. Apart from
cleaning and minor restoration work, it is kept in the same state as it was
found on the day the school was liberated. A long time ago, during one of my
wikipedia-binge-reading episodes, I had read extensively about atrocities
committed by the Khmer Rouge under Pol Pot. At that time, I had no clue
whatsoever, that one day I'd actually get to see the places I was reading about.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-25-school-prison-museum.jpg"
    title="school-prison-museum"
    caption="Once a school, then a prison, now a museum" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-25-no-laughing.jpg"
    title="no-laughing"
    caption="That sign probably prohibits laughing" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-25-barbed-wire.jpg"
    title="barbed-wire"
    caption="Barbed wire used to prevent prisoners from attempting suicide by jumping out" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-25-narrow-cell.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="narrow-cell"
    caption="One of the hundreds of narrow cells" %}

I was keenly interested in waterboarding, a torture technique employed by the
prison guards in Tuol Sleng. When reading about how it is executed, it seems
harmless enough. But in reality, it is considered as one of the most cruel
torture techniques ever devised. It can apparently cause permanent brain damage
or death in a matter of minutes. The board that was used to inflict this torture
is still preserved in Tuol Sleng.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-25-waterboarding.jpg"
    title="waterboarding"
    caption="An artist's illustration of waterboarding" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-25-the-waterboard.jpg"
    title="the-waterboard"
    caption="The waterboard" %}

The experience at Tuol Sleng was quite depressing, but in my opinion, it is also
very important for everyone to go to such places where unspeakable human rights
violations have been committed. No other species subjects other members of its
species to so much suffering as human beings sometimes do. Going to these places
serves as a reminder of what we are capable of, and how important it is for us
to ensure that horrific things like this are never repeated.

From Tuol Sleng, I went to an internet centre where a totally unexpected thing
happened. The guy sitting next to me was talking to his folks back home, and he
was telling them what an awesome time he had had shooting an AK-47 in Phnom
Penh. I was like, "What?!!! You can shoot an AK-47 here?". I googled for it
immediately, and sure enough, it was a popular thing for tourists to do! Once
the guy had finished his call, I asked him all the details; and decided that I
would do it before leaving Phnom Penh. After all, where else on earth would a
simpleton like me get to touch an AK-47, let alone fire it?
