---
layout: post
title: Snorkelling at Angthong National Marine Park
categories:
- Thailand
excerpt: The snorkelling package tour at Koh Samui starts early in the morning, and we were picked up from our hotel at the crack of dawn.
---

The snorkelling package tour at Koh Samui starts early in the morning, and we
were picked up from our hotel at the crack of dawn. We had checked out already,
so we took our luggage along and dumped it at the tour office before getting on
the boat. There were some pretty girls on our boat, so we were all happy -
especially Kini ;)

Our tour guide was absolutely incompetent and only interested in impressing the
girls on board. When we reached the designated snorkelling place, he hurriedly
handed us the snorkelling gear without any instructions on how to use it, and
then vanished. So once we had worn it and gotten into the water, we had no idea
what to do next. We tried to copy whatever everyone else was doing, and dunked
our faces under the water. That allowed us to see a few fishes and some coral,
but the experience would surely have been way better had we known how to snorkel
properly.

From there, the boat took us to an empty beach and en-route we were shown some
small islands that supposedly resembled famous monuments. But apart from one
that resembled the Sphinx, one really had to stretch one's imagination to see
the alleged similarity. At the beach, there were kayaks lined up and everyone on
our boat got into them in pairs. OJ & I got into one while Kini & VMK shared
another. All the kayaks then rowed to a different beach and that was really good
fun. On the way, one of the kayaks overturned, and OJ & I went to help. But it
was a hopeless endeavour. One of the two Frenchmen of the upturned kayak was so
massive that the best we could do was just offer him one of our oars and slowly
drag him to his kayak. Once there, he just hung onto it until more help arrived
and he could be dragged ashore. After spending some time on the new beach,
everyone kayaked back to the earlier beach where lunch was being served.

After lunch, our boat took us to a natural lagoon with a high viewpoint. This
place was incredible. From the vantage point, one could get stupendous views of
the surrounding areas. The natural lagoon was surrounded by mountains, and was
fed by an underground tunnel to the sea. The marine life in the lagoon was
fabulous, but tourists were not allowed into the water here.

By the time it was time to head back, the sea had become quite rough. Our driver
seemed to be bent on proving that our boat was indeed a speed boat. The boat
jumped up and down on the violent waters, drenching us completely in the
process. But we didn't mind one bit for the experience was as thrilling as being
on a roller coaster, and lasted a good while longer.

The boat dropped us at the pier, and we boarded the bus to Nathorn where we would catch the ferry to Surat Thani. On the bus, I started a conversation with an Englishman sitting next to me, and we had a great time chatting about random stuff. Unfortunately, we were too late getting to Nathorn since the last ferry to Surat Thani had already left. So we took up a room in a guesthouse, which meant that now we didnâ€™t have enough time to go to Pattaya for our planned skydive.
