---
layout: post
title: The Cu Chi tunnels
categories:
- Vietnam
excerpt: Early next morning, Golan, the Australian couple & I boarded our tour bus to the Cu Chi tunnels. On the way there, we visited a small scale industry where handicrafts were being produced by handicapped people. The stuff on display was quite fantastic, but it was just another overpriced tourist trap, and nobody bought anything.
---

Early next morning, Golan, the Australian couple & I boarded our tour bus to the
Cu Chi tunnels. On the way there, we visited a small scale industry where
handicrafts were being produced by handicapped people. The stuff on display was
quite fantastic, but it was just another overpriced tourist trap, and nobody
bought anything.

The whole experience at the Cu Chi tunnels was quite an amazing experience; one
that I would highly recommend. The tunnels were made by the Viet Cong to escape
from American bombs and to conduct guerilla warfare against the American troops
during the Vietnam war. Portions of the tunnels that were still intact had been
widened to allow tourists to enter them. Despite the widening, they were
extremely cramped. We got cramps just walking/crawling through a 60m stretch. It
was also quite unnerving because you could move only as fast as the people in
front of you and there was no easy way out if you got a panic attack. Definitely
not a place for claustrophobics to be in. I cannot even begin to imagine how the
Viet Cong built these underground mazes and at times spent weeks within them.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-28-tunnel-entrance.jpg"
    title="tunnel-entrance"
    caption="One of the entrances to the tunnels" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-28-ghost.jpg"
    title="ghost"
    caption="Can you spot the ghost?" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-28-hat-in-tunnel.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="hat-in-tunnel"
    caption="When in Vietnam, you wear the trademark conical hat - even if
        you're in a dark tunnel" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-28-golan-lisa-peter.jpg"
    title="golan-lisa-peter"
    caption="Golan, Lisa & Peter bringing up the rear" %}

I had already spent more time in HCMC than I could afford to, because there was
still so much more to see and time was running out. I had to be in Hanoi in
about a week's time to catch my flight to the USA. This meant that I now had two
choices : rush through the central portion of Vietnam by road/rail and reach
Hanoi just in time to board my flight, or fly directly to Hanoi and spend the
week in and around Hanoi. I opted for the latter because there was no way I
could do justice to central Vietnam if I were to rush through it. This only
means that I have to return to Vietnam one day to cover what I missed.

In the evening, Golan and I met up with Lisa, the Italian couchsurfer and
Johanna from Switzerland for dinner. All of us then went to the Cage Club, where
a couchsurfing meet was to happen. It was probably the worst couchsurfing meet
I'd been to, because there was no way one could have a conversation over the
extremely loud music. We were out of there in no more than half an hour.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-28-crazy-buffalo.jpg"
    title="crazy-buffalo"
    caption="The crazy buffalo near our room - an ugly building, but a superb
        landmark if you're lost or want a rendezvous point" %}
