---
layout: post
title: The other temples around Angkor Wat
categories:
- Cambodia
excerpt: The Angkor Archaeological Park contains many old temples, of which Angkor Wat is the most famous. Echo, Juli & I wanted to dedicate one full day to only check out the other temples in the region.
---

The Angkor Archaeological Park contains many old temples, of which Angkor Wat is
the most famous. Echo, Juli & I wanted to dedicate one full day to only check
out the other temples in the region. Soon after breakfast, we met two other
travelers - Talita (from South Africa) and Paul (from the USA) who had similar
plans, so we all decided to get together and share a tuk-tuk to take us around.
We negotiated a deal with an old tuk-tuk driver and got on our way. But we
hadn't even passed five houses down the street when Echo got into an argument
with the tuk-tuk driver. I didn't even know how the argument started but before
long we had to disembark with the tuk-tuk driver showering us with what I assume
were the finest Cambodian swear words.

Echo said she had changed her mind and now wanted to go by herself to click
pictures for a photo album she was working on. So the four of us negotiated
another deal with a young tuk-tuk driver this time. He seemed to be a friendly
chap and we were all looking forward to a fun and relaxed sightseeing day.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-18-tuk-tuk.jpg"
    title="Our tuk-tuk"
    caption="Paul, Talita, Juli & I with our initially friendly tuk-tuk driver" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-18-flute-girl.jpg"
    title="Flute girl"
    caption="With a young Cambodian girl selling flutes" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-18-large-coconut.jpg"
    title="Large coconut"
    caption="Tender coconuts here are HUGE and really heavy, so they're usually
        sliced at the bottom to allow them to stand freely" %}

We visited Banteay Srei and one other temple, and then stopped for lunch. We had
heard of there being two menus at every restaurant in Siem Reap - one for the
tourists and one for the locals. Rumour was that tourists paid upto five times
as much money as the locals did for the same dishes. So when the waitress at the
restaurant brought us the menu, we insisted on the "locals menu". They never
showed us that menu, but agreed to charge us only half the price listed on the
regular menu.

The restaurant people probably gave the tuk-tuk driver an earful for having
brought these stingy tourists to them, because the tuk-tuk driver's demenour
changed drastically. He was suddenly snobby and super impatient. He said the
temples tour was over and we would now be going back to the guesthouse. But we
reminded him that that was not what was agreed upon. At one point, he took off
his helmet and banged it hard on the bonnet of the tuk-tuk. This shocked
every one of us, but I put up a brave front and said in the calmest voice I
could muster that we wouldn't pay him any money if we didn't go to all the
agreed upon places. Even though I hoped that I appeared unfazed by him; inside,
I was more than a little scared. This guy was clearly a psycho and I was
half-expecting him to hurl his helmet right at me. But that didn't happen.
Instead, he muttered something under his breath and stopped at the next temple
on the route - Pre Rup.

Conversation in the tuk-tuk had been reduced to hushed tones, and we were glad
when we were finally out of it and safely back in the guesthouse. Needless to
say, the tuk-tuk driver didn't get any tip.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-18-green-countryside.jpg"
    title="Green countryside"
    caption="Green countryside" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-18-smooth-road.jpg"
    title="Smooth road"
    caption="Roads in Siem Reap are generally very good" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-18-sunset.jpg"
    title="Sunset"
    caption="Sunset from the rooftop bar in the guesthouse" %}
