---
layout: post
title: Bookstore Buddies
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: Back in Quito, I went back to my regular hostel - the one that I kept coming back to. My usual bed in the dormitory was free, and I took it once again!
---

Back in Quito, I went back to my regular hostel - the one that I [kept coming
back to]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url
travels/2010-05-22-el-panecillo-mitad-del-mundo %}). My usual bed in the
dormitory was free, and I took it once again!

After Ecuador, I was [going to travel through Colombia]({{ site.baseurl }}{%
post_url travels/2010-05-26-colombia-is-going-to-happen %}) for a month, but I
had zero clue about where to go in Colombia or what to do there. Searching
online for travel tips turned out to be fruitless, as there was hardly any
literature on the subject. Fear of the notoriously violent Colombian drug
cartels has kept tourists away for a really long time, and it is only in the
recent few years that the country has seen success in shedding its bad
reputation in the tourism sector. This is probably the primary reason for the
lack of online travel resources. Having no other choice, I finally decided to go
to a bookshop and buy myself a second-hand copy of any guidebook to Colombia
that I could find.

The first bookshop I went to was simply called "The English Bookshop". It had
tons of guidebooks both old and new to places as far away as China, but none to
neighbouring Colombia. The friendly old man who ran the shop couldn't give me
what I was looking for, but was happy to share his experience with me. He said,
"What I have learnt over the years is that you're more likely to find something
you need when you're simply walking along looking at things, than when you're
actually searching for it".

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-01-the-english-bookshop.jpg"
    title="The English Bookshop"
    caption="Entrance of The English Bookshop"
    courtesy="https://www.facebook.com/The-English-Bookshop-256218767815343" %}

It was, however, a little too late for me to walk along looking for the
guidebook, so I went straight to another bookshop. There was no guidebook in
this shop either, but I ran into a young English couple who were also in search
of a guide book to Colombia. They had also been to The English Bookshop before
coming here. We wished each other luck, and continued our common quest
separately... only to meet again at the next bookshop.

We ran into each other again at the next bookshop, and then once again at the
next. This time, when leaving I said to them, "See you guys at the next
bookshop", and sure enough, there they were again. Just for the avoidance of
doubt, I should point out that all these bookshops we were going to are actually
quite distant from each other, and are spread out over a large area in the "La
Mariscal" region of Quito. So despite being after the same goal, the probability
of us running into each other time and again was actually not that high!
Finally, the English couple decided to invest in an expensive new Lonely Planet
guide, while I settled for going to Colombia without any guidebook.

As I wrote earlier, Colombia has become a hot traveler destination in the past
few years, and guidebooks (even new ones) are hard to find. Bookshop owners love
to keep these guides, as they get sold in no time. Frequently it is possible to
exchange your old guidebook of the country you are presently in, for that of the
next country you are going to, with other travelers at the border who are headed
in the opposite direction. But these exchange opportunities are not guaranteed,
so I could understand the English couple's anxiety at not being able to find a
guidebook easily. As for me, I have once again decided to just wing it.
