---
layout: post
title: Lizzy's farewell party
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: The school had got some new volunteers in the past two weeks. First there was Pedro from Brazil, who was riding his motorcycle all around South America, Che Guevara style. He was followed by the young Brits, Tom & Chris; and then the Canadian brothers, Colin & Matt.
---

The school had got some new volunteers in the past two weeks. First there was
Pedro from Brazil, who was riding his motorcycle all around South America, Che
Guevara style. He was followed by the young Brits, Tom & Chris; and then the
Canadian brothers, Colin & Matt.

Lizzy was leaving over the weekend, and would be the first volunteer to leave
during my time at the school. We planned to organize a farewell party for her,
where everyone would cook something special. Those who know me know that I have
a voracious appetite. Unfortunately however, my love of food doesn't translate
to a love of cooking. Making Indian chai and omelettes are really the limit of
my culinary skills. So my week was spent in dread of the upcoming weekend
because I had *no* idea what to make.

Fortunately for me, Nicolas was exactly in the same boat, so we decided to
combine forces. We would make French fries (chips, if you're British; finger
chips, if you're Indian) with mayonnaise as starters to go with the main dishes
that everyone else was preparing. I would also make a heroic attempt at cooking
Aloo Gobhi.

On D-day, the underdogs totally outclassed the accomplished cooks. The French
fries and the Aloo Gobhi were a smash hit, and people were left licking their
fingers. Our attempt at making the mayonnaise, however, was rather unsuccessful.
We added anything and everything that we found in the kitchen to it - from milk
to flour to broccoli - but we still couldn't make it edible. But that small
failure was completely overshadowed by the towering successes of our primary
offerings.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-24-indo-french-papas-fritas-project.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="indo-french-papas-fritas-project"
    caption="The Indo-French papas fritas project (Tom just wanted to be in the picture)" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-24-good-food.jpg"
    title="good-food"
    caption="Loads of good food" %}

By the end of the night, all of us were stuffed. We had had some of the most
delectable food ever, and still couldn't get enough of it. Pedro, unfortunately,
had a small mishap with some hot oil splashing into his eye, but he could see
the next morning so all was well.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-24-customary-midnight-fight.jpg"
    title="customary-midnight-fight"
    caption="Customary midnight fight" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-24-the-crowd.jpg"
    title="the-crowd"
    caption="The crowd" %}
