---
layout: post
title: Otavalo
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: The next morning I checked out of my hostel once again, this time hopefully for the last time. The nice lady at the reception asked me if I had some Indian moeny as she had never had the opportunity to see it yet.
---

The next morning I checked out of my hostel once again, this time hopefully for
the last time. The nice lady at the reception asked me if I had some Indian
moeny as she had never had the opportunity to see it yet. I was carrying many
Indian 10 Rupee notes which had [caused me much embarrassment when getting into
Cambodia]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2010-02-16-cambodia-the-kingdom-of-wonder %}), and I was
happy to give one to the lady. Then I caught a bus to Otavalo, about 2 hours
north of Quito.

Otavalo turned out to be a quiet peaceful town with narrow empty streets. I
found a cheap room to stay, and a place near the town centre with free public
wi-fi. This was exactly my idea of a place to relax, and I enjoyed my time over
the next 2 days just walking around and using the free internet.

On Friday morning I called the Colombian consulate as instructed. They grilled
me on the phone for a long time, maybe more than 20 minutes. I answered all
their questions satisfactorily, and was given an account number into which to
transfer 39 USD. One more step closer to getting to Colombia :)

On Saturday, I woke up late looking forward to yet another chilled-out day of
walking around town, but I was in for a shock. I could barely recognise the town
at all. It had been completely transformed overnight. It was now jam-packed with
shops that had magically sprung up everywhere. The centre of town was now
off-limits for all vehicles, and every street was full of shops selling
everything from artistic creations to clothes to food. I was to later learn that
this was the largest and most colourful artisan market in South America.

I had no intention of buying anything at all, but simply could not help myself.
With all the additional things I now own, I don't have enough place in my
backpack. So besides my backpack and my daypack, I now have a third bag. The
only way to get back to travelling with only two bags is by discarding some
things :(

I don't know why but I didn't take a single picture in Otavalo, and now I regret
it big time. I'll just have to post some pictures found elsewhere.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-24-otavalo-imbabura.jpg"
    title="otavalo-imbabura"
    caption="The city of Otavalo with Volcano Imbabura in the background"
    courtesy="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Otavalo_Imbabura_nina_urkuwan.jpg"
        %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-24-market-1.jpg"
    title="market-1"
    caption="Walking through the artisan market"
    courtesy="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Otavalo_market.jpg" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-24-market-2.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="market-2"
    caption="A portion of the market"
    courtesy="http://www.linandy.co.uk/images/Quito/07Otavalo.jpg" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-24-market-3.jpg"
    title="market-3"
    caption="Another view of the market"
    courtesy="http://sweettravelblog.com/wp-content/uploads/2008/12/otavalo.jpg"
        %}
