---
layout: post
title: Bogota
categories:
- Colombia
---

My Colombian visa was only valid for 30 days, and I had spent way too many of
those days in Cali. This meant that I would now have to rush through the other
Colombian cities that I wanted to visit. The next one on that list was Bogota,
the capital city.

In the hostel in Cali, I had heard horror stories of overnight buses being
stopped in the middle of nowhere and the passengers being robbed at gun-point.
So I was really reluctant to take an overnight bus, but taking a day-time bus
would mean losing yet another of my precious Colombia days. Finally I decided to
risk it and go for the evening bus. Soon after we had left Cali, the bus stopped
and men with guns got on board. Everyone in the bus was made to alight and lean
against the bus with our palms pressed against the bus and our feet slightly
apart. Everyone was then patted down. All the foreigners in the bus, me
included, were asked to handover our passports. Dear reader, you may now dab at
that nervous sweat that is forming at your brow, because those armed men were
uniformed soldiers of the Colombian army and they were looking for drug
traffickers. Once they were satisfied with the frisking and had verified that
the passports were in order, they returned our passports and we were on our way
once again.

The bus dropped me off in Bogota early in the morning, and I approached a nearby
policeman to help me with directions to my hostel. He in turn called a younger
policeman, clearly someone in his first days at the job, and put him in charge
of directing me.

The young policeman was surprised and also excited to meet me, the only Indian
he had ever seen. Within the limitations of my Spanish, we managed to talk about
a few topics while waiting for my bus. There were two other "touristy" looking
people also waiting there, so I asked them if they were going in the same
direction as me. It turned out that they were, so the 3 of us decided to share a
taxi. I thanked the young policeman, and gave him one of my many 10 Rupee notes,
which he gladly accepted.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-16-graffiti.jpg"
    title="graffiti"
    caption="Graffiti somewhere along the way" %}

My companions in the taxi were a girl from France and a local Colombian man. The
guy was a theatre artist who came to Bogota often to perform in theatre shows.
He was a nice man and voluntarily gave both of us his phone number and asked us
to call him if we ran into any trouble while in Bogota. We parted ways in the
historical centre of Bogota and I carried on towards my hostel.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-16-bajaj-pulsar.jpg"
    title="bajaj-pulsar"
    caption="The Bajaj Pulsar is one of the most popular motorcycles in
    Colombia" %}

After keeping my bags at the hostel, I went looking for free wi-fi and
discovered a cosy little cafe with friendly staff and a really nice ambience. I
had been in touch with a girl from Poland called Barbara, and she was reaching
Bogota around the same time as I was. It turned out that she had already arrived
the previous day and we agreed to meet later in the evening at the weekly
couchsurfing language practice meeting.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-16-traffic.jpg"
    title="traffic"
    caption="Traffic in Bogota" %}
