---
layout: post
title: Googie Goes Bungee Jumping
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: The bus dropped us near the bridge in Baños from where one could jump off the edge suspended by bungee cords for a mere 10 USD. I had always wanted to do a bungee jump, and couldn't wait to try. Abraham had already jumped off this same bridge twice before, and he was ready for more. Nicolas & Pedro however didn't want to, so we put them in charge of capturing our jumps.
---

The bus dropped us near the bridge in Baños from where one could jump off the
edge suspended by bungee cords for a mere 10 USD. I had always wanted to do a
bungee jump, and couldn't wait to try. Abraham had already jumped off this same
bridge twice before, and he was ready for more. Nicolas & Pedro however didn't
want to, so we put them in charge of capturing our jumps.

Abraham went first and jumped backwards. The whole setup looked pretty secure,
so I was almost unafraid. I would have preferred to jump forward with the ground
rushing toward me, but the staff had already prepared my harness for a backward
jump, so I went ahead with it.

Here I will digress. As I was writing the previous two paragraphs (about 20
minutes earlier) in a small classroom in Katitawa, I could hear something that
somehow seemed out of place. But I was lost in my thoughts, and it took me a
while to realise what it was. As soon as it struck me that it was a Hindi song,
I rushed outside to find the source. The music was coming from the
football-pitch-cum-dancing-playground above the toolshed where the kids were
dancing to "Bole chudiyan, bole kangana" from the movie "Kabhi Khushi Kabhi
Gham". To be honest, I did not even like the song, but it was _such_ a pleasant
surprise to hear a Bollywood song being played on the other side of the world
that I couldn't help but join in the dancing.

{% include video.html
    code="IBvg3WeqP1U"
    caption="The original music video of Bole Chudiyan, Bole Kangana" %}

Coming back to my bungee jump off the bridge in Baños, I ended up jumping
backwards facing the sky and fell freely for maybe 2 to 3 seconds, after which I
felt the cords of the harness tightening around me. I was actually seeing stars
at this point and it took some time to get my orientation right. After that, I
swung back-and-forth suspended in mid air for about 5 minutes while they gently
lowered me down to the ground.

It hadn't been a _real_ bungee jump where one is tied only at the ankles, but
for a fraction of the cost of the real thing, it had been a good experience.

&lt;&lt; VIDEO UPDATE PENDING &gt;&gt;
