---
layout: post
title: The search for a power adaptor
categories:
- Colombia
excerpt: Everyday I would go on long walks looking for shops selling electronics. I was looking to buy a replacement adaptor for my laptop, which by now I was sure was lost.
---

Everyday I would go on long walks looking for shops selling electronics,
particularly ones manufactured by Samsung. I was looking to buy a replacement
adaptor for my laptop, which by now I was sure was lost. But none of the shops I
went to were selling a suitable one. Finally I came across what seemed like a
shopping mall filled with shops, all of which were exclusively selling
electrical and electronic equipments. Although it was already past closing time,
it was a massive boost to my dying confidence. I knew that if a replacement
adaptor existed, it was to be found in this mall.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-13-hammock.jpg"
    title="hammock"
    caption="Few things beat lying in a hammock in a garden with a laptop" %}

Next morning after breakfast, I set out on the long walk to the electronics
shopping mall. My level of confidence dipped with every shop I went to. Most of
them didn't have any power adaptors, and those that did, didn't have one that
would fit my netbook. Finally in one of the shops, I was told that they could
make a custom one for me, but it would cost about 150 USD. This was more than
the cost of my netbook itself, so I politely refused the offer.

As I made my way back to the hostel, I passed a couple of tattoo studios. I had
always wanted to get a permanent tattoo, and I figured getting it done on the
exact other side of the planet would make the trip all the more memorable. But
this would've to wait. It was time to head back to the hostel and drown my
sorrows as all hopes of finding a replacement power adaptor were now gone.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-13-hostel-lobby.jpg"
    title="hostel-lobby"
    caption="The hostel lobby" %}

I was really worried now. In a few more days, I would move on from Cali, and
then I wouldn't even have access to Sarah's adaptor. In desperation, as a last
ditch effort, not really expecting a positive outcome, I called the hostel in
Popayan where I had stayed last week. Imagine my surprise and joy when they said
that they had indeed found a laptop power supply and didn't know who the owner
was. I told them to keep it safe while I would make the 5 hour bus journey to
come and retrieve it. But they had a better idea. They would find someone headed
to Cali and would ask them to take it along. I agreed and thanked them profusely
for their help.
