---
layout: post
title: San Pablo and Cotacachi
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: When I had had enough of Otavalo, I thought I'd head to nearby San Pablo, find a tree next to its large lake, sit under it and read a book all day long. With this in mind, I got to the bus stand in Otavalo where there were several stalls selling food.
---

When I had had enough of Otavalo, I thought I'd head to nearby San Pablo, find a
tree next to its large lake, sit under it and read a book all day long. With
this in mind, I got to the bus stand in Otavalo where there were several stalls
selling food. I sat at one of the stalls and bought some fried fish. It was
really tasty. So I added fried fish to the plan. The new plan was to head to San
Pablo, find a tree next to its large lake, sit under it, read a book and eat
fried fish all day long. So I bought more of the fried fish, and hopped on a bus
to San Pablo.

What I had not accounted for was the smell of the fish. No sooner had we been
travelling for a few minutes that the smell of the fish filled the bus. This
pissed off the driver and the conductor of the bus so much that they stopped the
bus and asked whoever had brought the fish to get out. I was worried about the
potential embarrassment if discovered, but more importantly, my master plan of
spending the day under a tree by the lake reading a book and eating fried fish
was now at risk. So I stayed put. When nobody moved even after the conductor's
repeated and angry outbursts, he started going from seat-to-seat looking for the
culprit. Discretely, I kept the polythene bag with the fish next to my feet and
my daypack on my lap so the polythene bag couldn't be seen. When the conductor
reached my seat, I pretended to be the dumb foreigner who doesn't speak a word
and doesn't understand a thing. I just looked quizzically at his angry face and
shrugged my shoulders. It worked and he left me alone. After a while, they gave
up and continued the journey. I think I held my breath all the way to San Pablo
where both me and my fried fish could finally get off.

The first order of business at San Pablo was to find a place to stay so I could
leave my heavy backpack there. But there was only a single super-expensive
hotel, and no other hostels. So I went straight to the lake instead. But there
was major disappointment in store for me there. It was not in the least like
what I had imagined. A small pier had been built by the lake, and there were
many tourists. Admittedly, it was a picturesque location with the volcano
Imbabura in the background, but there was no tree by the lake under which I
could sit in peace. To make matters worse, there were many street dogs who could
already smell the fried fish I was carrying and were following me around with
wagging tails.

I snapped a few quick pictures and started walking back to the main road to
catch a return bus to Otavalo. I wasn't going to risk getting on a bus again
with the fried fish so I ate as much as I could (there was a lot, as my plan was
to sit under that tree the whole day) and the rest I threw to the dogs.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-the-san-pablo-lake.jpg"
    title="the-san-pablo-lake"
    caption="The San Pablo lake" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-boat-rides.jpg"
    title="boat-rides"
    caption="Boat rides on the lake" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-volcano-imbabura.jpg"
    title="volcano-imbabura"
    caption="The volcano Imbabura overlooking San Pablo" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-parada.jpg"
    title="parada"
    caption="Always looking for a parada" %}

Back at Otavalo, I opened up the map to look for a nearby town to travel to
next. I settled on either Cayambe or Cotacachi, as both had some touristic
appeal. I only had time to visit one of the two places but couldn't decide which
one to choose. I was surfing the internet at one of the internet centres close
to the Otavalo bus station, and asked some friends who happened to be online at
that time to choose one of the two places. I also asked the owner of the
internet shop for his recommendation. The overwhelming winner was Cayembe, so in
true Breakdown Gang style, 30 minutes later I was on a bus headed to Cotacachi.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-church-at-cotacachi-centro.jpg"
    title="church-at-cotacachi-centro"
    caption="The church at Cotacachi centro" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-park-at-cotacachi-centro.jpg"
    title="park-at-cotacachi-centro"
    caption="The park at Cotacachi centro" %}

At Cotacachi, all hostels were turning out to be too expensive. While randomly
walking around, I saw a "gringo looking" blond guy, so I asked him if he spoke
English. He turned out be an Argentinian who not only spoke English, but was
also friendly and helpful. He told his Dad who was accompanying him that I was
looking for a hostel, and his Dad went into a nearby shop to ask the locals. On
returning, he gave me clear directions to the closest post office! The Dad had
heard "postal" instead of "hostel", and when he realised his mistake, we all had
a good laugh. Though they hadn't really provided me with any useful information,
I thanked them for trying nevertheless and continued walking. The friendly
owners of one the expensive hotels I checked out drew me a map showing where I
could find a comfortable-yet-not-too-pricey place to stay. After checking in
there, I kept my bags in my room and went out to explore the town.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-rainbow.jpg"
    title="rainbow"
    caption="Rainbow" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-narrow-streets.jpg"
    title="narrow-streets"
    caption="Narrow streets of Cotacachi" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-by-night.jpg"
    title="by-night"
    caption="By night" %}

Cotacachi was very similar to Otavalo, like a mini-version of it; and I liked it
just as much. After walking about for a bit, I found a "productos naturales"
cafe which I thought would be a perfect place for dinner. But since it was too
early for dinner and I didn't want to walk anymore, I sat on a bench opposite
the cafe and began to read. Soon I was lost in my book, and when I looked up,
the cafe was closed :(

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-earth-is-our-home.jpg"
    title="earth-is-our-home"
    caption="Sure is!" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-25-volcano-cotacachi.jpg"
    title="volcano-cotacachi"
    caption="The volcano Cotacachi overlooking the town of Cotacachi" %}
