---
layout: post
title: My first day in South America
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: When I woke up in the morning, I was eager to step out of the airport terminal to breathe some fresh South American air for the first time. But before that I needed to figure out where to go.
---

When I woke up in the morning, I was eager to step out of the airport terminal
to breathe some fresh South American air for the first time. But before that I
needed to figure out where to go. I knew that I had to take a bus heading to a
town called Ba単os, but get down before that at Salasaca. But what I didn't know
was where to find this bus. I couldn't see any tourist information desk, so I
decided to ask some random woman who seemed to be part of the airport staff.
There was of course a massive communication gap between us, but I thought that
the combination of the words "bus" and "Ba単os" should suffice in getting the
meaning across.

It did not suffice. The woman led me straight to a toilet, smiled as if to say
"you're welcome", and walked away leaving me totally confused. Once I had
recovered, I turned around and asked another young lady. She seemed even more
confused than I was, simply pointed to the toilet door behind me and scampered
away quickly. I was utterly perplexed. I thought that maybe the toilet did hold
the key. Maybe it had a poster with bus stop locations or something. So I went
inside and studied the walls, the mirrors, looked inside the stalls, and even
behind all the doors but there was nothing to indicate a bus stop. Thankfully it
was still quite early, so there was no one else in the toilet, or else my weird
loo-behaviour would have been sure to arouse suspicion.

Not to give up that easily, I walked to another end of the terminal where I met
a group of three middle-aged women. They were part of the airport cleaning
staff, and I repeated my request to them. One of the women asked, "Ba単os?" while
doing a quick squatting motion with her hips and blowing a fart from her mouth.
This made all three women burst out in laughter and me red in the face. It
suddenly dawned on me why I was being led to the toilet. In that split-second, I
had correctly gathered that the Spanish word for a toilet was Ba単os.

I quickly changed tactics, and asked for the other big town near Salasaca -
Ambato. This time around, I got very clear directions on how to get from the
airport to the bus-station.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-10-south-america.jpg"
    title="south-america"
    caption="South America. Oh yeah!!" %}

It was a long seven hour bus ride to Ambato. It was awesome to look outside and
see some really new things. There were plants and animals and birds that I never
knew existed. The bus stopped midway to fuel up and I took the chance to stretch
my legs and breathe the fresh mountain air. My co-passengers were buying some
dark brown meat from a small shop, so I bought myself a plate as well. It was
chewy and like nothing I had had before. Every time the bus stopped, people
would come inside selling stuff to eat. I bought one of each type of thing.
Every opportunity I got, I would fix my gaze on people getting in or out or just
standing around. I was mesmerized by them - their clothes and their mannerisms.
It was hard to believe that I was witnessing from such close quarters, life on
almost exactly the opposite side of the planet to where I had spent most of my
life so far. It was magical.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-10-first-look-at-ecuador.jpg"
    title="first-look-at-ecuador"
    caption="First look at Ecuador from the bus" %}

From Ambato to Salasaca centre was a short bus ride. But I still had to get from
there to "Hostal Pachamama" where all the volunteers who worked at Katitawa
lived. I asked one of the jeep-taxis standing there, and he offered to drop me
off for 2 USD. I was to later learn that I could have taken a shared jeep ride
for 10 cents, but whatever.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-10-hostel-pachamama.jpg"
    title="hostel-pachamama"
    caption="Hostel Pachamama, with my future good pal, who I named 'Blacky'" %}

When I reached, the front door of the hostel was locked. There was no doorbell
and I knocked in vain for a good 10 minutes. Finally I gave up and went from the
side to the back. There was a flight of steps that led to a patio, and there,
sleeping on a hammock was a guy. I gently woke him up and introduced myself. The
guy's name was Olivier. He was from France and also one of the volunteers at
Katitawa. Olivier was super-excited (I think even more than me!) that today was
my first day in South America.

After dumping my bags, Olivier took me to the library, which was quite some
distance from the hostel. He told me that the school is also a bit of a walk up
the side of a hill. En route to the library, we met some other volunteers -
Dotahn from Australia, and Emma & Damir from Sweden. At the library, I met
Robert (aka Roberto) who was in charge of Katitawa. Robert was a 78 year old
American pensioner who had been running the school for the last 6 years or so. I
was to later learn that the school was funded almost wholly by Robert's pension
and donations from people, mostly past volunteers.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-10-biblioteca.jpg"
    title="biblioteca"
    caption="The blue building is the Biblioteca (Library)" %}

Back at the hostel, I met Emmily (Dotahn's wife and also from Australia), Ed &
Tanya from the UK, and Morgane from France. All of us then played football
together. All I remember from the game was that my team had four players while
the opposing team had seven, and still we won hands down :)

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-10-salasacan-valley.jpg"
    title="salasacan-valley"
    caption="The Salasacan valley from the patio of the hostel" %}

As it so happened, I had arrived on the day when everyone had planned to have a
dessert party. Over some tasty dessert, I met Rick & Nigel from Northern
Ireland. Nigel had a black eye from the time he was mugged after withdrawing
money from an ATM. It was a grand welcome party for me with many different types
of delicious desserts, washed down with copious amounts of Cuba Libre.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-10-dessert-party.jpg"
    title="dessert-party"
    caption="Dessert Party" %}
