---
layout: post
title: Biking down the Chimborazo
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: Matt had heard during his travels that it was possible to arrange for a biking tour down the Chimborazo, and that it was a great experience. He was going to Rio Bamba this weekend to do it, and I decided to join him. We reached Rio Bamba on Saturday evening, checked into a cheap room, and set off to arrange for the tour.
---

Note that in this post "biking" refers to push-biking/bicycling. In India at
least, "a bike" almost always means a motorcycle, so biking could easily be
confused with riding a motorcycle.

Matt had heard during his travels that it was possible to arrange for a biking
tour down the Chimborazo, and that it was a great experience. He was going to
Rio Bamba this weekend to do it, and I decided to join him. We reached Rio Bamba
on Saturday evening, checked into a cheap room, and set off to arrange for the
tour.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-coconut-hole.jpg"
    title="coconut-hole"
    caption="That's an interesting way to open a coconut" %}

The first place we went to was called Probici and was run by an affable guy
called Galo. Galo gave us an overview of the various route options that one
could take along with the costs associated with each. He also said that there
was a third person who was interested in going on a biking tour on the same day,
so we could get a discount along with a free bonus hike to a nearby "twisted
trees" forest. We thought that this was a steal for 40 USD, so we decided to
look no further and took up Galo on his offer. We also chose our bikes from his
collection and other equipment that we'd need.

After doing some shopping for the next day, having a traditional Ecuadorian
dinner and downing a few beers, we hit the sack in anticipation of an
adventurous day ahead.

In the morning, at the agreed upon time, Galo met us outside our hostel with the
3 bikes secured firmly on top of his Toyota 4WD. The third person who would be
riding with us was a British guy called Jeremy. Along the way to Chimborazo, we
stopped by a bull farm and spotted a few bulls that were being raised
specifically for participating in bull-fights.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-fighting-bulls-farm.jpg"
    title="fighting-bulls-farm"
    caption="The farm where fighting bulls are raised" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-road-to-chimborazo.jpg"
    title="road-to-chimborazo"
    caption="Driving to the Chimborazo" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-vicuna.jpg"
    title="vicuna"
    caption="A Vicu√±a along the way" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-chimborazo-first-look.jpg"
    title="chimborazo-first-look"
    caption="First look at the Chimborazo" %}

Then we drove off-road for a bit, parked, hiked up a small hill and ended up in
the "twisted trees" forest. The forest was very interesting and seemed
completely out-of-place as it bore absolutely no resemblance to any other
vegetation around. We were told that the twisted trees only grew on the leeward
side of the hill, as it was way too windy at all other places.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-twisted-trees.jpg"
    title="twisted-trees"
    caption="The strange twisted trees" %}

From there, we drove all the way up to the first base camp and parked. After
that, we proceeded to hike up another 950 feet to reach the second base camp
which was just beyond the snow line. This was the first time that I was touching
snow in Ecuador! Once back at the first base camp, we unloaded the bikes and
listened to some last minute instructions from Galo, who would be following us
in the jeep. Then, we were off.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-hiking-to-second-base-camp.jpg"
    title="hiking-to-second-base-camp"
    caption="Hiking up to the second base camp" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-snow.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="snow"
    caption="Chilling in the snow" %}

Within the first 20 metres I knew that this was not going to be a
walk-in-the-park. It was freezing cold and my fingers had gone numb inside my
gloves. It had begun to rain a little, but under the power of the gale force
winds, the rain droplets were needles stinging our faces. The loose gravel, the
steep descent and the deep ridges on the road made it not only difficult, but
also quite a dangerous endeavour. But Matt seemed totally unperturbed by all
this, and tore off down the road. Jeremy and I on the other hand, struggled and
descended at our own pace.

A few kilometres later, just when I thought I'd got the hang of it, I lost
control and crashed. Thankfully the soft gravel cushioned my fall and I escaped
with nothing more than a bruised ego. The rest of the ride was challenging, but
at the same time amazing. Before we knew it, we'd covered the 14 km to the next
rendezvous point.

At this point, there was a fork in the road - one road went back to Rio Bamba
and the other one went to Ambato. The road to Rio Bamba involved more mountain
biking and provided great views of the mighty mountain on a clear day. The road
to Ambato involved 45 km of asphalt road biking and no views of the Chimborazo.
The rains showed no sign of stopping, so there was no way we could see any more
of the Chimborazo today, so Matt and I wanted to go to Ambato. But Galo & Jeremy
wanted to go the other way. Finally after a long debate, we convinced Galo &
Jeremy to ride to Ambato and began the asphalt road biking stretch.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-valley.jpg"
    title="valley"
    caption="A quick picture taken when the rain paused for a bit" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-09-biker.jpg"
    title="biker"
    caption="Biker Googie" %}

The views along the way were simply breath-taking. But the incessant rains meant
that (1) we couldn't take our cameras out to get any pictures, and (2) we got
completely drenched. But we made it back to Ambato in good time, said goodbye to
Galo and Jeremy, and caught a bus back to Salasaca. All-in-all, it was 40
dollars well spent.
