---
layout: post
title: Venky calling
categories:
- India
excerpt: My cousin Prit who lives in Germany was on a brief visit to India, and had come to meet friends in Bangalore. Whenever Prit comes to India, he tries to make it to the famous Venkateshwara temple in Tirupati and this time was no exception.
---

My cousin Prit who lives in Germany was on a brief visit to India, and had come
to meet friends in Bangalore. Whenever Prit comes to India, he tries to make it
to the famous Venkateshwara temple in Tirupati and this time was no exception.

There are a few companies that operate a 24 hour Bangalore-Tirupati-Bangalore
package tour. As part of one of these tours, one boards a bus late in the
evening after dinner, and reaches Tirupati in the wee hours of the morning.
There - at about 3 am or so - one has to queue up outside a counter until the
counter opens (usually a wait of about two hours). Queuing up that early
generally means that the queue itself is not too long. You could probably expect
about 20 or so people in front of you, which by Indian standards is a
practically non-existent queue. Then you have to purchase a ticket, whose value
depends on what privileges you'd like to have. Everyone knows that faith is big
business, and paying more to seek the Lord's blessing more comfortably is not
frowned upon. After all passengers in your bus have obtained their tickets, the
bus drops you off at wherever you need to join another much longer queue. This
queue then over the next several hours slowly winds its way around the temple
complex inching ever closer to the sanctum sanctorum where the Lord awaits. Note
once again that this applies only to mere mortals. Others, whom the Lord has
already smiled plentifully upon, usually breeze through without having to wait a
millisecond, or so I have heard. I have also heard that these are the same
privileged ones who breeze through in their Mercs and their BMWs, and will not
hesitate in expediting your meeting with the Almighty if you somehow get into
their bad books. But being a mere mortal myself, I am far removed from the world
of these godly creatures and cannot attest to the veracity of these claims.
Anyway, once you have reached the destination of the queue, things happen fast.
You get pushed and shoved around and get a few seconds of face-to-face time with
the omnipotent one, before the queue regurgitates you and spits you out not very
far from your waiting bus. You must then wait some more until your co-passengers
are similarly spat out. It is worth noting here that your co-passengers will
have invariably bought a ticket of the same value as you - there is a reason
they are in your bus after all. This means that all of you will be ejected at
more-or-less the same time, give or take 30 minutes. After everyone has happily
reunited, the bus will begin its return journey to Bangalore arriving a little
less than 24 hours after your departure.

So coming back to my cousin Prit, he wanted to take one of these 24 hour package
tours, and since he didn't have any company, he asked me if I'd like to join
him. Remember that I have been without a job for about 20 days now, and a casual
observer will say that I have all the time in the world to do this trip. But if
you have read [my previous post]({% post_url 2010-01-18-alvida-bangalore %}),
you know that I have no time AT ALL for this trip. Then again, if you know me,
you would know that I am not one to say no to any trip. So long story short, I
conveniently set aside all my prior commitments and gave two thumbs up to Prit.
