---
layout: post
title: The mystery of the missing bicycle
categories:
- Cambodia
excerpt: Over dinner the previous evening, I had promised to accompany Juli to go and catch the sunrise at Angkor Wat, which was supposed to be a big deal. Ryan, a traveller from the US, who was also staying at the same guesthouse was keen to join us.
---

Over dinner the previous evening, I had promised to accompany Juli to go and
catch the sunrise at Angkor Wat, which was supposed to be a big deal. Ryan, a
traveller from the US, who was also staying at the same guesthouse was keen to
join us. Juli showed up promptly at 5 am to wake me up, and along with Ryan, we
rented three bicycles from the guesthouse. A *lot* of people had the exact same
idea, as we saw heaps of bicycles headed in the same direction. But about
halfway to the temple we suffered a setback when Juli's bike got a flat tyre.
Time was running out because the Sun wasn't going to wait for us; and I had no
intention of putting myself through the torture of waking up this early again
the next day. So I told Juli to lock her bicycle by the side of the road, and
hop on behind me on the carrier of my bicycle.

Ultimately, we made it Angkor Wat in time for the sunrise, which was actually
quite a nice spectacle.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-19-early-morning.jpg"
    title="Early morning"
    caption="At 5 am, Ryan & I totally groggy, while Juli is clearly wide awake"
        %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-19-sunrise.jpg"
    title="Sunrise"
    caption="Sunrise at Angkor Wat" %}

From there, we cycled to the massive temple of Bayon (the one with the huge
stone faces) and then on to Phrae Khan. We decided to leave Juli's bike where we
had locked it earlier and deal with it later on the way back. Ryan & I took
turns to take Juli on our bikes. Ryan had to head back early as he had some work
in town, so on the way back, Juli & I only had a single bicycle. So we took
turns in pulling the weight and being the weight.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-19-striking-resemblance.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="Striking resemblance"
    caption="What a striking resemblance we have" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-19-close-up.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="Close up"
    caption="Close up of the ancient man" %}

When we got back to Angkor Wat, we hired a motorbike taxi. Our plan was that
we'd go to Juli's bicyle with the flat-tyre, I would sit behind on the motorbike
taxi and carry it, while Juli rode my bicycle back to the guesthouse. But there
was a problem. When we got to the spot where we had parked the bicycle early in
the morning, it wasn't there. The driver of the motorbike taxi and I looked
everywhere around in the vicinity but the bicycle was nowhere to be found. It
was obvious that someone had stolen it, as we hadn't locked it to anything. We
waited for Juli to get there and gave her the bad news. She was distraught
because it was a new bicycle, and the guesthouse was sure to ask her to
reimburse it in full.

The driver of the motorbike taxi asked us to wait there and rode away. In a
short while, he returned with two policemen who also looked around a little, and
then told us what we already knew - that it was careless of us to have parked
the bicycle by the side of the road without securing it to anything else. One of
the policemen then spoke into his walkie-talkie, and then broke into a smile.
Some other policemen had found a bicycle by the side of the road and had taken
it to one of their nearby camps.

One of the policemen offered to take me there on his motorcycle. I asked Juli to
go on ahead to the guesthouse with my bicycle, and the driver of the motorbike
taxi to follow the policeman's motorcycle. Once at the police camp, I was happy
to find out that it was indeed our bicycle that the cops had confiscated. It was
as obvious as daylight that the main cop at the camp expected some sort of bribe
for letting me take the bicycle, but I played the clueless tourist who doesn't
know the ways of the world almost to perfection. I gave him my most sincere
thanks and a vigorous two-handed handshake and quickly placed the bicycle and
myself on the motorbike taxi. The driver of the motorbike taxi was a smart man
and understood my plan immediately. Before the cops could figure out a way to
stop us, he had started the motorbike and we were gone. Back at the guesthouse,
I gave the driver of the motorbike taxi a generous 5 USD tip. He had truly
earned it.
