---
layout: post
title: Baños
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: I had some shopping to do, so I wanted to go to either Baños or Ambato - the two closest towns to Salasaca. Some of the volunteers were heading to Ambato to watch a football game, whereas Romel, the gardener at the school was going to Baños to meet his mother.
---

I had some shopping to do, so I wanted to go to either Baños or Ambato - the two
closest towns to Salasaca. Some of the volunteers were heading to Ambato to
watch a football game, whereas Romel, the gardener at the school was going to
Baños to meet his mother. Since Romel was a local Ecuadorian, I figured that I
would learn more about the local culture if I went with him, so I chose to go to
Baños.

The driver of our bus to Baños was a psychopath. He drove the bus as if it was a
motorcycle, weaving in and out of traffic and often coming close to having a
head-on collision with an oncoming vehicle. Driving at such high speed in a such
a dangerous manner through the hilly roads was scary even to someone like me who
was used to the chaos that is traffic in India.

[As we learnt earlier]({% post_url 2010-04-10-my-first-day-in-south-america %}),
Baños is the Spanish word for toilet/bathroom. The city of Baños is so called
because of the numerous hot water springs in the area. Baños is situated at the
base of the active volcano
[Tungurahua](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tungurahua), and it is the magma
within the volcano that actually heats the water in the springs. Besides
Tungurahua, there are also other majestic mountains around which makes for truly
picturesque surroundings.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-11-tungurahua.jpg"
    title="tungurahua"
    caption="Tungurahua - the active volcano"
    courtesy="http://i.eldiario.com.ec/fotos-manabi-ecuador/2009/tungurahua-volcano.jpg" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-11-church.jpg"
    title="church"
    caption="Church of the Virgin of the Holy Water"
    courtesy="https://media-cdn.tripadvisor.com/media/photo-s/07/bb/cd/85/church-of-the-virgin.jpg" %}

Baños also has a famous church called 'Nuestra Señora del Agua Santa' (aka
'Church of the Virgin of the Holy Water') and Romel's house is right behind it.
Calling it a house is not really appropriate, because it is no larger than a
prison cell meant for solitary confinement, much like the narrow cells of [Tuol
Sleng]({% post_url 2010-02-25-the-tuol-sleng-genocide-museum %}). Romel told me
that his ex-wife kicked him out of his house, and that's the reason he has to
now live in this make-do shelter. His current "house" is located right outside
the gate of what once used to be his home, and his mother lives next door with
his siblings. We ran into his sister when we got there, and she didn't seem too
pleased to see him. From their brief exchange (which of course I didn't
understand a word of), it was quite clear that Romel isn't really the perfect
family man.

I waited in Romel's cell while he went out to do his work. I waited for a bit,
but it didn't seem like he was coming back soon. I was really happy that I had
brought my netbook along and I pulled it out to blog a little. After some time,
an old woman showed up with a glass of fruit juice for me. It was Romel's mom,
and it was really sweet of her to make it for me.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-11-romels-house.jpg"
    title="romels-house"
    caption="Romel's 'house' with the gate of what once used to be his real
        house" %}

Romel returned with a large sack that he said he needed to take back to
Salasaca. Since I needed to buy some groceries, we then went to a nearby
supermarket. When that was done, Romel suggested we take a taxi back to Salasaca
as it would be quite difficult to take his big sack on the bus. I agreed under
the assumption that we would split the taxi fare. But when we reached, not only
did I have to foot the taxi bill, but also had to give some money to Romel. He
promised to return it as soon as he got his paycheck, but I already had my
doubts about that. From my point of view, the amounts involved were not _that_
high - 12 USD for the taxi and 10 USD to Romel - but it still left a bad taste
in my mouth. Needless to say, I decided to henceforth limit all interactions
with Mr. Romel.
