---
layout: post
title: Alvida Bangalore
categories:
- India
excerpt: Since getting the US visa, I had become lazy and procrastination had set in. Before I knew it, almost an entire precious month had gone by and I hadn't really done much to further my travelling cause.
---

Since getting the US visa, I had become lazy and procrastination had set in.
Before I knew it, almost an entire precious month had gone by and I hadn't
really done much to further my travelling cause.

The only thing that had been decided was my first flight out of India. I would
be flying from Mumbai to Bangkok on the 6th of February with three of my friends
from the Breakdown Gang - Kini, VMK & OJ. If I had to be in Mumbai on the 6th,
then I would probably need to leave Bangalore on the 3rd or 4th. But then I also
wanted to go to Varanasi to meet Jana, and had to go to New Delhi to try and
arrange for a few visas at some of the embassies there.

Moreover, I also wanted to throw a big farewell party before leaving, meet close
friends and relatives, do some last minute shopping and sell/give away/put into
storage everything I owned.

I was telling all this to my flatmates and to our guest Graeme from Canada over
some amazing coffee that Anne had made for us. As I was putting my thoughts into
words and as I was watching the incredulous faces of my listeners, it became
painfully obvious what a fool I had been to waste the previous few weeks sitting
around doing nothing. I no longer had the time to take it easy, calmly
sauntering into the airport to board my flight, having already taken care of
everything that needed taking care of. Instead, this was going to be
touch-and-go. It made absolutely no sense going all the way north to Varanasi &
New Delhi, then flying back down south to Bangalore and then flying once again
to Mumbai to meet my friends. So we decided, right then and there, that I would
try and take care of as many things as I could over the next two days; and then
leave Bangalore - the city I had called home for more than five and half years
now - for good on the 20th of January 2010.
