---
layout: post
title: Salinas
categories:
- Ecuador
---

Some of the volunteers of Katitawa - Nicolas, Lizzy, Damir and Emma had made
plans to visit Salinas, the town of cheese and chocolates. I obviously jumped at
the opportunity to not only do some sightseeing but also get to know some of the
people I would be spending the next few weeks with. Salinas was a two and a half
hour bus ride away, and it was lunch time by the time we reached.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-12-cock-fight-arena.jpg"
    title="cock-fight-arena"
    caption="Cockfight arena in Ambato" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-12-with-nicolas-and-damir.jpg"
    title="with-nicolas-and-damir"
    caption="Nicolas, Damir & I in Salinas" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-12-llama.jpg"
    title="llama"
    caption="Llama - this was the probably the first time that I was seeing one
        (and definitely so at such close quarters). But unlike what Tintin
        comics had led me to believe would happen, it didn't spit in my face" %}

There was no menu at the restaurant we went to. There was a set meal and the
only thing you could choose was whether you wanted it with chicken or with pork.
After lunch, we checked out the famous chocolate factory. The others bought a
_lot_ of chocolates, but not being a big chocolate lover, I was content with
watching how they were made. From there, we went to a cheese shop. The others
bought a _lot_ of cheese, but not being a big cheese lover, I was content with
watching it in the shelves.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-12-volleyball.jpg"
    title="volleyball"
    caption="Volleyball - the favorite sport of the Ecuadorians" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-04-12-camioneta-ride.jpg"
    title="camioneta-ride"
    caption="Camioneta ride on the way back" %}

None of us was keen on sitting in a bus again, so on the way back we hailed a
camioneta ride till Ambato. Since all seats in the front were taken, Nicolas & I
rode standing in the back. It was cold as it is, but riding that way meant that
we were freezing all the way. But we didn't mind it one bit because we could
chat with random locals hopping in and out of the back of the camioneta every
now and then. Moreover the wind in our hair among the lush green hills with the
pure mountain air made it a totally exhilarating experience.
