---
layout: post
title: Moving up the coast
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: As I was having breakfast by the beach the next morning, a pudgy man came along, sat himself down on my table and started talking to me. My obvious deficiency in Spanish didn't seem to deter him, and he launched into telling me about the highlights of Muisne.
---

As I was having breakfast by the beach the next morning, a pudgy man came along,
sat himself down on my table and started talking to me. My obvious deficiency in
Spanish didn't seem to deter him, and he launched into telling me about the
highlights of Muisne. One word that featured often in what he was saying was
"manglares". At first I was shocked and wondered how in the world did he guess I
was from [Mangalore](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mangalore){:target="_blank"}.
Later, thanks to his descriptive hand gestures, I gathered that "manglares" was
Espanyol for mangroves. Apparently they were a huge attraction of Muisne. The
way the guy praised them you'd think tourists from the world over flock to
Muisne to check out the manglares.

The man was actually a tri-cyclo driver who wanted to show me around the island
for 6 USD. So determined was he to make me a customer that I eventually gave in,
and hopped onto his tri-cyclo after finishing my breakfast.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-palm-trees.jpg"
    title="palm-trees"
    caption="Long line of palm trees by the vast beach" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-tree-stump.jpg"
    title="tree-stump"
    caption="All that remains of what was probably a huge tree, a long time ago"
        %}

Tri-cyclos at the Ecuadorian coast are similar to the [cyclos of
Vietnam](http://www.haivenu-vietnam.com/pop-cyclo.htm){:target="_blank"}. Like
their South-east Asian cousins, they have the customers sitting in front while
the driver sits behind. But almost all of the Ecuadorian ones are powered by a
motorcycle.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-tri-cyclo.jpg"
    title="tri-cyclo"
    caption="The tri-cyclo and its driver" %}

The island tour actually turned out to be fun, although the mangroves were not
quite as enchanting as I had been led to believe. The sand near the mangrove
forest was unbelievably soft. Each step you took made a burrow a few inches
deep. I was fascinated by the sand and was lost in playing with it when all of a
sudden, my guide started running after a crab on the beach. He was a big, rather
fat man and it was funny to watch him run. I only watched him for a few seconds,
thinking to myself, "Hah! He has some really high hopes if he thinks he can
actually catch one of them". In hindsight, I should have given him more credit
and observed him for a bit longer, because he actually managed to get hold of
one!!

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-crab.jpg"
    title="crab"
    caption="Crab" %}

Later, I tried to catch one myself, and almost did it with barely any effort. My
conclusion is that South American crabs are much easier to catch than Indian
ones. In India, I cannot even come to within a foot of those nimble-footed
little creatures. I'm sure there's a reason why the Indian crabs have evolved to
be much faster.

From Muisne, I went to Tonchigue and then got onto a
[Chivas](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chiva_bus){:target="_blank"} headed to
Punta Galera. There were no hostels at Punta Galera, but a man offered to let me
sleep on a torn bed on his balcony for 10 USD. I managed to not laugh at his
face, and politely refused the preposterous offer. But at Punta Galera, I had
one of the best lunches of my South American trip so far at a small home ([this
was probably the home](https://goo.gl/00V2hY){:target="_blank"}). It was the
remaining extra food - of rice and lobsters - from their own lunch. I was having
homemade food after a long long time, and by the end of the meal, I made sure
that whoever cleaned my plate wouldn't have to work too hard.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-parked-boats.jpg"
    title="parked-boats"
    caption="Parked boats at Tonchigue" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-chivas-ride.jpg"
    title="chivas-ride"
    caption="Chivas ride to Punta Galera" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-punta-galera.jpg"
    title="punta-galera"
    caption="First view of the ocean at Punta Galera" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-closer-look.jpg"
    title="closer-look"
    caption="A closer look" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-coconuts.jpg"
    title="coconuts"
    caption="Shouldn't be too hard to pluck these coconuts" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-29-lunch-people.jpg"
    title="lunch-people"
    caption="People who gave me lunch" %}

I had initially thought I'd spend a night at Punta Galera, but with nowhere to
stay, I decided to immediately head towards my next destination - Atacames. I
walked to the only bus-stand around to wait for the next Chivas. The wait turned
out to be a very long one. When no Chivas showed up after the better part of an
hour, even the couple of local women waiting in the bus-stand with me began to
despair.

Luckily, soon thereafter, a jeep stopped near the bus-stand and the man offered
to give us a ride. The two women and I gladly accepted his offer and got in. As
luck would have it, the man was also going to Atacames. He was transporting
cheese in the jeep and the whole jeep was stinking of it. At the end of the
ride, I offered to give the man some money, but he just smiled and drove off.

[Atacames](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atacames){:target="_blank"} is a
well-known party place, and every hotel I went to was packed. I was told that
this is the case every weekend, and I'd have better luck finding accomodation in
the nearby town of Sua. Having no other alternative, I came to Sua, which in
comparison was much more relaxed and peaceful. Finding a decent place to spend
the night was also much easier here.
