---
layout: post
title: The Pacific Ocean
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: Once I had successfully acquired the tourist visa to Colombia, there was no reason for me to stay in Quito any longer. So I gathered my bags and left for the bus terminal. My next destination was the coastal town of Esmeraldas to see the Pacific Ocean.
---

Once I had successfully acquired the tourist visa to Colombia, there was no
reason for me to stay in Quito any longer. So I gathered my bags and left for
the bus terminal. My next destination was the coastal town of Esmeraldas to see
the Pacific Ocean. There were direct buses to the coast, but it would take at
least 6 hours to get there, which meant that it would be very late at night by
the time I reached. As a single traveler in a foreign land, I wanted to avoid
being outside that late into the night, and hence decided to only go part of the
way. Accordingly, I bought a ticket to Santo Domingo de Los Colorados which was
only 3 hours away.

It was about 8 pm by the time I reached Santo Domingo. The bus terminal was in a
rough looking neighbourhood. There were groups of men standing around smoking
and talking loudly, while skimpily clad prostitutes walked around exhibiting
their wares. With my backpack and cap, I clearly stood out as an outsider and
was the target of all their stares. I dared not fish out my camera to take
pictures. Fortunately however, there were many hostels in the area, and I easily
found a cheap room for the night.

It was only when walking up to my room that I realised what a shady place this
was. It was a loud place filled with cigarette smoke and seemed like an
establishment favoured by the prostitutes on the street. I just wanted to get up
to my room, lock myself there until the morning and get the hell out of there as
soon as I could. I could feel all eyes on me as I entered my room and shut the
door. About 10 minutes later, I heard the last thing in the world I wanted to
hear - a knock on my door. I opened it a peep to find a man asking me something.
His Spanish was much faster than I could understand and told him so. He slowly
said "Agua", meaning water. I fetched him a glass of water which he drank,
thanked me and left. It was clear that his curiousity had gotten the best of him
and he wanted to check out who this stranger was. Thankfully however, nothing
else of note happened and I could check out of there and leave in the morning.

Breakfast was something really delicious I had at a crowded roadside stall run
by a pair of brothers. I have no idea what it was, but it tasted divine. Then I
got on to a bus to Esmeraldas, and later on to another one going south along the
coast to a small town called Muisne (pronounced moo-ee-nay).

Muisne is actually a small island created by a thin arm of the sea. Parts of it
reminded me of my own native place, the city of Mangalore on the south-western
coast of India; even though the two places couldn't possibly have been further
apart. At Muisne, I rented a sea facing room with a hammock outside (for perhaps
half the cost of my hostel bed in Quito), and proceeded to the beach to touch
the waters of the Pacific Ocean for the first time in my life.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-27-hammock.jpg"
    title="hammock"
    caption="Hammock outside my room" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-27-pacific-ocean-first-look.jpg"
    title="pacific-ocean-first-look"
    caption="First look at the Pacific Ocean" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-27-puffed-up-dead-fish.jpg"
    title="puffed-up-dead-fish"
    caption="Puffed up dead fish on the beach" %}
