---
layout: post
title: Farewell trip to Tena
categories:
- Ecuador
excerpt: Many volunteers were leaving Katitawa to continue with their travels. As a sort of farewell trip, we all decided to travel to Tena at the edge of the Amazonian rainforest of Ecuador.
---

Many volunteers were leaving Katitawa to continue with their travels. As a sort
of farewell trip, we all decided to travel to Tena at the edge of the Amazonian
rainforest of Ecuador.

All eleven of us left the hostel early on Saturday morning and got to Salasaca
centro. It wasn't really much of a centre, but more an intersection of two
roads. One was the smaller road that led to the library and beyond that, the
hostel. The other was the larger road connecting Ambato and Baños. This is where
we would part ways with Lizzy, who would be going towards Ambato. She was going
to meet a friend in Quito, so wouldn't be able to come with us to Tena. After a
round of quick hugs and goodbyes, Lizzy was gone.

The rest of us then hired a camioneta till Baños, and got into the back. Beers
appeared magically and were passed around.With all of us riding in the back
together, the ride to Baños turned out to be super fun! We decided to ditch the
earlier plan to take a bus to Tena, and instead checked with our camioneta
driver if he would drive us all the way there. After a quick round of
negotiations, an agreement was reached, food and a few crates of beer were
purchased, and we were on our way.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-02-camioneta-chilling.jpg"
    title="camioneta-chilling"
    caption="Chilling in the back of the camioneta" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-02-precariously-perched.jpg"
    title="precariously-perched"
    caption="Precariously perched" %}

As always, the Ecuadorian landscapes along the way were simply breathtaking.
About halfway there, it started pouring in torrents which meant all laptops and
cameras and phones had to be put away in the cabin next to the driver. All of us
got drenched to the bone, and that's when the singing started. We cycled through
dozens of songs, before finally settling on "In the jungle, the mighty jungle
the lion sleeps tonight". Singling of this song was synchronised to the minutest
detail in the most professional manner. Everybody had their specific parts to be
sung or hummed at specific times at the right tempo. The singing eventually gave
way to an enactment of our skit from the previous day - "Un Patito Feo" - in the
cramped back of the camioneta, under the torrential downpour, while travelling
at breakneck speeds through the winding mountain roads.

{% include video.html
    code="L1-T6nq0kGs"
    caption="As usual, EmmTahn's brilliant composition of the best moments of
        our ride" %}

Emmtahn have also written an account of the trip to Tena from their perspective
in their blog post
[here](http://emmtahn.wordpress.com/2010/06/03/welcome-to-the-jungle){:target="_blank"}.

Once in Tena, we had a delicious lunch of "arroz con camarron" (rice with
prawns) and "encebollada" (soup made with yuka and catfish), after which we
spent the next few hours sipping beers by the river. Dinner was some truly
amazing pizza, and thanks to the copious amounts of beer that had been consumed
(99 bottles since morning between the 10 of us), I guess ours was by far the
loudest table at the pizzeria.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-02-by-the-river.jpg"
    title="by-the-river"
    caption="The guys by the river in Tena" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-05-02-pizzeria.jpg"
    title="pizzeria"
    caption="Pizzeria" %}

On the way back to our hostel in Tena, we spotted a nice little place to chill.
After a while at the new place, Pedro, Abraham & I said goodnight to the rest
and went on ahead to the hostel. It was only the next morning that we heard the
story of Nicolas locking himself up in the men's restroom, climbing out of the
small window there and going for a stroll by himself. When the others eventually
discovered that Nicolas was missing, they went roaming around Tena looking for
him. They gave up after a couple of hours and got back to the hostel only to
find Nicolas already dozing on his bed :)

Everybody had brunch together the next morning (some still recovering from
hangovers due to the excesses of the previous day), after which it was time to
say goodbye. We had spent only a few weeks together, but had grown close living
under the same roof and working together. We exchanged contacts, wished each
other luck for the remainder of our travels, and then Nicolas, Pedro, Abraham &
I caught a bus headed to Baños.

Oh, and also check out Lizzy's excellent post about parting with old friends and
making new ones on the road
[here](http://minutesofhoney.wordpress.com/2010/05/15/today-and-today-and-today){:target="_blank"}.
