---
layout: post
title: The floating village on Tonle Sap
categories:
- Cambodia
excerpt: A major tourist attraction in the Siem Reap area besides the temples is the floating village on the Tonle Sap lake. Juli, Talita, Paul & I rented a tuk-tuk and set off to check it out.
---

A major tourist attraction in the Siem Reap area besides the temples is the
floating village on the [Tonle Sap
lake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tonl%C3%A9_Sap). Juli, Talita, Paul & I
rented a tuk-tuk and set off to check it out.

The tuk-tuk could only take us as far as a pier from where one had to rent a
boat to get to the floating village. But at the pier, the system is set up in
such a way that tourists cannot go directly to the boatmen to negotiate a fare.
This allows the middlemen (some association whose name escapes me) to charge an
exorbitant fee (at least by Cambodian standards) of 12 USD per person for a seat
on one of the boats.

The boat we got on to was being rowed by two young boys, the older of whom was
no more than 15 years old. The destination of all these tourist boats is one of
the large floating restaurants close to the floating village. On the way one can
see some several floating houses, some floating stores, a floating church and
even a floating basketball court.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-20-floating-church.jpg"
    title="Floating church"
    caption="The floating church" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-20-crocodile-farm.jpg"
    title="Crocodile farm"
    caption="The floating crocodile farm right next to the floating restaurant"
        %}

It was only when we got close to the restaurant that I could see what a
ginormous lake Tonle Sap really was. Like a sea it stretched on out till as far
as the eye could see. On reading about it later, I discovered that it is the
largest fresh-water lake in South East Asia.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-20-tonle-sap-lake.jpg"
    title="Expansive Tonle Sap lake"
    caption="The expansive Tonle Sap lake" %}

Soon after we reached the floating restaurant, there came a large boat carrying
many Chinese tourists. Right on its tow were a large number of smaller boats
being rowed by women and children. These, as we discovered, were beggars from
the floating village. Each of these begging boats was being rowed by a woman
with an infant in her lap, and two or three very small children sitting inside
the boat. Slightly older kids had a metal bucket which was their own private
little boat.

Several of the just-arrived Chinese tourists went to the restaurant to break
their dollar bills into smaller change of Riels. This they then held out for
people in the begging boats to fight over. I cannot even begin to put into words
the disgust I felt at watching this scene unfold. It was hard to believe that
these were human beings who had been reduced to this state of having to grapple
for some small change, like a pack of hungry dogs fighting over some meat.
Obviously my sadness was not shared by the Chinese tourists. From what I could
see, every one of them (men, women and children alike) were having a blast, and
this is probably what disturbed me the most.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-20-begging-boats.jpg"
    title="Begging boats"
    caption="The begging boats" %}

Despite their pitiable state, I was mesmerized by the kids in the metal buckets.
They were sitting in their own buckets so comfortably as if the bucket was just
an extension of their bodies. No matter how much they moved about trying to
squeeze in between the other begging boats or reaching for the money being held
out, hardly any water got into the bucket. Even when some water did manage to
get in, it was calmly emptied almost sub-consciously. I think I can safely say
that I have never before witnessed such absolute lack of fear of the water.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-20-bucket-boy.jpg"
    title="Bucket boy"
    caption="One of the bucket boys" %}

Soon, the tourists were bored of holding money out and sat down to enjoy their
lunches while the begging boats hung around, probably to see if they would be
offered something else. But after a while, another large boat of tourists docked
at a different floating restaurant nearby; prompting the entire congregation of
begging boats to make a beeline for the other restaurant.

Over the past few days, we had seen a lot of temples in Siem Reap, and it was
refreshing to experience something else for a change. But on the whole, I'd say
the Tonle Sap experience was not worth the time or the money. Most of the money
we had paid had almost surely gone to the middlemen controlling the boat
association, with hardly any going to the impoverished boatmen.

Once back at shore, we got onto our tuk-tuk and started the return journey to
Siem Reap. On the way, there was a beautiful field of Lotus flowers where we
stopped to click a few pictures.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-20-lotus-field.jpg"
    title="Lotus field"
    caption="The field of lotuses" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-02-20-kids-at-lotus-field.jpg"
    title="Kids at lotus field"
    caption="With the kids near the lotus field" %}
