---
layout: post
title: Exploring Bogota
categories:
- Colombia
excerpt: I am usually very cautious when crossing roads, and I always follow the pedestrian crossing signals; but last evening I ignored it -- big mistake.
---

I am usually very cautious when crossing roads, and I always follow the
pedestrian crossing signals; but last evening I ignored it -- big mistake.
Before I knew what was happening, I was caught in the middle of oncoming
traffic. I was standing on top of one of those narrow white lines that divide
the road into lanes. Cars and buses and motorcycles were whizzing past me, and I
got my fair share of honks and abuses by the angry drivers. If one of them had
decided to ignore lane discipline, I was done for. After a nerve-wracking 60
seconds, which seemed more like an hour, there was a break in traffic, and I
quickly scampered across towards the shocked white faces of the onlookers on the
other side of the road.

In my still shaken state, I went to the weekly couchsurfing English language
practice meeting and met a lot of the local couchsurfing members, but Barbara
was nowhere to be seen. I asked the other guys if she had already left before I
showed up, but nobody remembered seeing any Polish girl. After spending a few
hours talking English (finally!), I came back to the hostel and slept.

The next morning, Barbara came to my hostel and found me ordering my things in
the dormitory. When I first saw her, my jaw almost dropped to the floor, because
she bore a striking resemblance to Jana (I discovered later that it was only
from certain angles).

From the hostel, we walked to a crowded corner where a friend from her hostel, a
guy called Jose from Argentina, was selling photographs. He was a talented
photographer and had travelled to several countries in Latin America only to
click pictures. We browsed through some of his stuff, and I promised to buy at
least one snap from him before leaving Bogota. After that, Barbara & I walked
around the historical centre of Bogota; spending a lot of time feeding pigeons
at the Bolivar square.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-17-jose.jpg"
    title="jose"
    caption="With Jose and his photographs" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-17-random-street.jpg"
    title="random-street"
    caption="Random street in Bogota" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-17-pigeons-in-bolivar-square.jpg"
    title="pigeons-in-bolivar-square"
    caption="Feeding pigeons in Bolivar Square" %}

After a cheap but delicious pizza, we walked to the Botero museum, which houses
Colombian artist Fernando Botero's personal collection of work that he presented
to the city of Bogota in 2004. Botero has a distinctive style of making everyone
and everything obese in his paintings and sculptures.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-17-large-hand.jpg"
    title="large-hand"
    caption="The large hand that greets you as soon as you step into the Botero
    museum" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-17-painting.jpg"
    portrait_image="true"
    title="painting"
    caption="One of Botero's \"fat people\" paintings" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-17-adam-and-eve.jpg"
    title="adam-and-eve"
    caption="Botero's Adam and Eve sculpture" %}

Adriana, an active local couchsurfer joined us in the museum. Later, we met a
few other couchsurfers - Aga from Poland, and Oscar & Luis from Bogota itself.
The local guys took us to some really cool secluded parts of the city walking
through narrow cobblestoned streets to a small place that was famous for the
local drink chicha. Over bowlfuls of chicha they told us that it is actually
illegal to brew this drink, and that the big beer brands have used their clout
to have this ban imposed.

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-17-walking-around.jpg"
    title="walking-around"
    caption="Walking around in Bogota" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-17-alleyway.jpg"
    title="alleyway"
    caption="Through narrow, hidden alleyways" %}

{% include image.html
    img="assets/travels/2010-06-17-chicha.jpg"
    title="chicha"
    caption="Chicha" %}

Later still, we went to Barbara's hostel to meet Jose the photographer again.
After talking to him for a bit, I bought some of his pictures, and we went to
get a dinner of Arepas. The next plan was to go dancing at some famous
nightclub, but since I was quite tired, I said goodbye to them and asked them to
carry on.
