---
layout: post
title: Gurgaon
categories:
- India
excerpt: TODO
---

I spent the entire weekend in Gurgaon doing pretty much nothing. This was mainly because to do anything, one had to go out somewhere, and to go out somewhere one needed some mode of transport, and when it came to public transport, DLF phase 5 was worse off than Cranberry township. One had to call an auto-rickshaw or a cab 2 hours beforehand.

But Punitha and her flatmates Sneha, Meghana & Sumona were really nice. We went to watch a movie (Inception) one evening followed by partying late into the night at F-bar. The club was exceptionally posh with celebrities and TV crew and other things that surround the rich and famous, but this scruffy backpacker had one thing going for him – 4 girls dancing around this one guy :)

My arrival in India and me staying in Gurgaon coincided perfectly with Priya’s wedding, and there was no reason for me not to go. But as mentioned before, to go out anywhere, I needed to call an auto-rickshaw 2 hours earlier and this was something I forgot to do on the day of the wedding. So I called Meru cabs, but was told all their taxis were booked. Then I called Easycabs who promised me a taxi and also SMS’ed me the driver’s phone number. But when the driver didn’t show up well after the scheduled time and all attempts to reach him failed, I had to think of an alternative.

Luckily for me, Punitha was going out with some of her friends, who dropped me off at the first taxi we saw. It was a Meru cab, and the driver gladly agreed to take me. He had been roaming the streets for the past 3 hours waiting for a job, while I had been told that all Meru taxis were booked. I wonder what’s going on in the Meru cabs system?!!

The wedding was nice, with hundreds of varieties of food to choose from. I was busy eating when someone called out to me. It was a pleasant surprise to see Akshatha, one of my classmates from engineering, who had come from Bangalore with her Mom. We were just catching up when the bride made her appearance. She was being carried on a palanquin around the whole place before being dropped off on the stage next to the groom. Then I witnessed something I’ve never seen in a wedding before – the whole stage was fitted with a hydraulic lift, and the bride and groom were slowly lifted to about 10 feet above the rest of the crowd where they would garland each other :) After congratulating them, and clicking the customary wedding pictures, I said goodbye to Akshatha and her Mom and left the function to go back home.

Getting back home wasn’t going to be a walk in the park. I spent the next half an hour trying to flag down auto-rickshaws and the only one that stopped, sped away as soon as I had uttered “DLF phase 5”. After a few phone calls, I got the number of some taxi driver, who sounded very surprised to get a call from someone at that late hour. He agreed to take me for 300 Rupees (I would even have paid a 1000 at that time). Two men (the driver and his friend) showed up in a white car a little later. Travelling in a vehicle that did not look like a taxi with 2 obviously strong and rough looking men, going through unlit neighbourhoods in an area notorious for armed robberies was not the safest situation to be in, and I was understandably anxious. I checked if the child-lock was on, and rolled down the windows immediately after getting in. Then I called some people, and made sure that I was giving them constant updates about my present whereabouts (loud enough for the men in the taxi to hear), while all the time keeping one hand on the door handle (to jump out if there was any suspicious activity).

But none of the dangerous situations I was imagining came to be. I was to later learn that this taxi driver never got random calls for a pickup in this manner, and brought his friend along to ensure his own safety.
