---
layout: post
title: Skydive # 2
categories:
- USA
excerpt: TODO
---

Having been out late into the night, and being complete lazy buggers, there was no way we could have gotten out of the house before lunchtime. But we had planned for perhaps the only thing that could change that, a skydive!

So after making a few phone calls, we settled on XXXXXX in Mercer, Pennsylvania for the jump. Both OJ & I had jumped out of a plane in the past, so we more-or-less knew what to expect. But since we didn’t have prior appointments, we had to wait for a long time to get our jump slots.

Our turn came sometime in the afternoon, we got into the small plane with our jump-masters, and climbed all the way up to 14000 feet. The ascent to that altitude seems to take an eternity, but once you get there, everything happens so fast. People start jumping out in quick succession, and before you get a chance to observe all that is going on, you find yourself at the door of the plane looking down into a large white blanket. Before your mind gets a chance to tell you that under that soft soft white blanket is an extremely large, extremely flat and extremely hard thing, you find yourself flung way out of reach of the safety of the plane.

During my first jump, I had experienced a sensory overload immediately upon exiting the plane – very common with first-time jumpers, since your brain has never experienced this feeling before and has no idea how to cope with it. So this time, I had told myself to focus on fully experiencing freefall right from the moment of jumping off the plane to the moment the parachute was opened. I strongly believe that freefall must be among the most thrilling things that a human being can experience in his/her lifetime.

What makes a skydive so superbly, amazingly, fantastically awesome is that after the crazy adrenaline rush and the deafening roar of the freefall, one almost instantly goes into a calm and peaceful silence once the parachute is opened. Another thing I strongly believe is that looking into the horizon where one can see the curve of the earth five thousand feet above the crowd and the noise of civilisation where the only sound one hears is the wind rustling through the parachute above one’s head must be among the most serene things that a human being can experience in his/her lifetime.

After the skydive, we got on our way towards Canton, Michigan to meet my uncle and his family. Along the way, we took a diversion to Luna Pier, a quaint little place on the coast of Lake Erie. I had driven to Luna Pier in 2008 when I was in the US on work, and I was eager to go there again. It was as pretty as ever, and after spending some time walking on the pier, we hit the road once more.

Thanks to all our diversions, our numerous, frequent and generally long breaks, it was 2 am by the time we got to Canton. My relatives were still up and waiting for us to arrive, and after a round of introductions and a quick dinner, we put our tired selves to sleep.
